---
title: A job modeled after my experience
alias: A job modeled after my experience
---
# A job modeled after my experience

> 💡 This is in relation to [[01KWN86X6MFZQAJ1V36T9592E0]].

# Occupation

I want to model [[01KWN86X6MFZQAJ1V36T9592A4]]’ job after my job as a software developer working for an agency, but I’ve run into a few problems with that.

# Creativity vs. problem solving

Creativity is one of the main things I do.  Personally and professionally, I make stuff.

Yet creativity has never been a major interest of mine within the content of Marloth.

The first book opened with James writing a book, but then largely portrayed that as negative and featured little creativity after that.

When thinking of James’ role, I always instinctively see him as more of a problem solver / fixer.

Fixing has also been one of my primary professional roles, though one I have less often sought out and more often taken reluctantly.  However, there have been seasons when I embraced it wholeheartedly.

# Bad Omen

During the peak of me running with the idea of being a professional “fixer”, my LinkedIn profile was:

> I’m a bad omen.  If you see me, you’re already in the danger zone.  If you’ve so much as spoken to any of my colleagues, you’re already beyond the outer limits.  This is the road less traveled, and it’s a treacherous road.  It’s also my home.  I’m here to help people like you, and I’m the best chance you have at making it out of these woods alive.

I’ve wanted to model James’ job around that description.

> 💡 The bad omen bit is a tad pretentious, but may be useful if used lightly.
