---
title: Nivana supporting her sister
alias: Nivana supporting her sister
---
# Nivana supporting her sister

[[01KWN86X6MFZQAJ1V36T9592K8]]

# Motivation

This story arc has the following benefits:

1. It makes [[01KWN86X6NJZMP5ZESZTNDXY3Z]] more sympathetic
2. It adds more [[01KWN86X6NJZMP5ZESZTNDXXYH]].
3. It fleshes out the Mediev family dynamics
    1. Similar but slightly different: It ties together the skeletal remains of previous Mediev story plans and puts meat back on those bones
4. It adds more weight to Nivana’s [[01KWN86X6NJZMP5ZESZTNDXXXM]] 
5. It makes Nivana’s circumstances less about Nivana.
6. It is an unusual feature for this kind of story and adds a splash of Charles Dickens-style narrative to [[01KWN86X6NJZMP5ZESZTNDXY83]].
7. It adds drama (without being melodramatic)

# Adelle

At one point I discarded this idea because I felt Nivana’s ongoing relationship with Jewel distracted from Nivana and Adelle’s relationship.

However, now that Adelle’s role in the setting is better established and Nivana is a secondary character, I’m less concerned about them directly relating to each other.

Increasingly, they will need to be indirectly relating to each other through their larger circumstances.

In this case, [[01KWN86X6MFZQAJ1V36T9592ED]] may actually provide another dimension *for* Nivana and Adelle to relate to each other.

It’s like in rom-coms when one of the main characters is a single parent and the other main character earns favor by befriending the child.

Both Nivana and Adelle are concerned for [[01KWN86X6MFZQAJ1V36T9592ED]]’s well being, and as a [former Mediev maid](./01KWN86X6NJZMP5ZESZTNDXY8F.md), Adelle has history with [[01KWN86X6MFZQAJ1V36T9592ED]]’s care.

[[01KWN86X6MFZQAJ1V36T9592ED]] might also provide relational contrast.  Nivana is used to helping [[01KWN86X6MFZQAJ1V36T9592ED]] as her younger, mild-mannered sister, while post-maid Adelle is a peer that pushes back.
