---
title: What is the forest job, if any?
alias: What is the forest job, if any?
---
# What is the forest job, if any?

# Overview

I want there to be a major story arc in a forest, and the general pattern I am leaning toward is each major arc involves a job for James.

Which begs the question: what Job should James have in the forest?

# Client

If James has a job, there must be an employer who hires the agency’s services.

If that is the case, it would probably be best if the employer was an inhabitant of the forest.

It would probably be best if the employer was also at least moderately wealthy.  Most of the agency’s clients need to have at least some significant income to spare, and it also fits for the client to be somewhat above the everyday affairs of the forest folk.  A wood cutter would not go and hire an external agency to solve a problem.

# Problem

So what is the job?

- Outdated fixer idea
    
    James is a fixer, so there must be a problem to fix?
    
    James should be there to fix a problem that the client has.  A supernatural problem.
    
    The problem doesn’t *have* to be dangerous, simply meddlesome.  Maybe the dangerous nature of the forest does not need to be directly tied to the job, but act as a general impediment.  Every other step James takes is made more complicated by this crazy forest.
    

## Monster hunting

First off, and this will probably be a defining aspect of this arc, is I want the forest to be full of dangers, but the goal isn’t to rid the forest of dangers.

The forest arc should not be about [[01KWN86X6NJZMP5ZESZTNDXY20]].

# Endeavors

With James being a risk manager now, most of his jobs should be endeavors that need support.

# Militia

One idea that intrigues me is if a growing village felt the need to form its own military to defend its borders.

However, I want the job to be tied to folklore and fairies, so maybe instead of defending against other nations, the force could be dedicated to defending against supernatural forces.
