---
title: James’ agency role - Investigation
alias: James’ agency role - Investigation
---
# James’ agency role - Investigation

# Overview

> 💡 After further thought, I don’t want investigation to be the focus of James’ work.  I want his job to be modeled after my work, and I’m not an investigator.  James’ work will involve some research.
> I think the main thing I don’t like about investigation is I’m a problem solver.  When the emphasis is on investigation, solving the mystery directly results in a solution.  I’m fine with problems that have many unknowns, but I want the problems to be difficult to solve even if most information is available.

I’m not sure about it, but it might work well to model [[01KWN86X6MFZQAJ1V36T9592A4]]’ role after [[01KWN86X6PZXQP43T36924KCSY]], where he’s an operative that explores, observes, studies, and analyzes a situation and setting.

I guess much of the time I am an investigator, even though that word is never used in my line of work unless a person is an auditor, which I rarely am.

I think the association I don’t like about investigation, is it sounds legal, like an audit.  That’s not my intent here.

# Mystery

One of the other main associations with investigation is detective stories and murder mysteries.

I don’t like drawing attention to mystery.  [[01KWN86X6PZXQP43T36924KCSG]] should be background, unless it is incidental and something I planned on revealing either way.

My interest with investigation is not revealing a mystery.  It’s about organization, clarity, and understanding.  About piercing through confusion and darkness.  It’s about cultivating a deep understanding of a situation (and along the vein of [[01KWN86X6PZXQP43T36924KCSY]], location).

# General vs. Specific

Part of the issue here is there are two types of investigation: general and specific.

The term “investigation” is most often used in relation to specific investigation.  A specific issue arose with one or more specific questions and the purpose of the investigation is to answer those questions.

# General investigation

General investigation can still be driven by specific issues and questions, but the circumstances are much broader and also involve open-ended questions.

The primary purpose of general investigation is to gather domain expertise and be able to answer any question about that domain.

General investigation is about being intimately acquainted with a situation.

> 💡 A general investigator is an expert in knowing what he does not know.
