---
labels:
  - NotionPage
title: A woman is driven from the Asylum for being sane
notion_id: 13558e628ba28066994ef0ae0f2b3622
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/Scenes/A woman is driven from the Asylum for being sane 13558e628ba28066994ef0ae0f2b3622.md
alias: A woman is driven from the Asylum for being sane
inferred_notion_path: Marloth/Scenes
created_at: 2024-11-05T02:15:00.000Z
modified_at: 2025-11-29T18:40:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/A-woman-is-driven-from-the-Asylum-for-being-sane-13558e628ba28066994ef0ae0f2b3622
notion_archived: false
---
# A woman is driven from the Asylum for being sane

# Value

This is a powerful and ironic scene.

Normally the Asylum is viewed as a prison, with the workers as wardens.

Here the Asylum is portrayed as a fortress, with the workers casting someone into the wilderness.

People are incentivized to be insane.

# Problems

The idea raised by this scene can quickly become problematic.

The extreme case of the idea is that the outside of the Asylum is so dangerous it is effectively instant death.

That is novel but places restrictions on other characters stepping outside of the Asylum.

Two of the main ideas this conflicts with is I had been planning on having characters coming and going to and from the Asylum.

In particular, I envisioned two ideas:

1. James and Adelle being cast out of the Asylum (and surviving).
2. Some daily commuting to the Asylum (by members of [The Agency](../Features/The%20Agency%2044db7ec455e14b10a9bc1da088f20f66.md)).

> 💡 It’s worth noting that it took me over a year of developing the idea before I realized the conflict.
> I think in many cases people wouldn’t notice the conflict, if hand-waved well, but some people might still notice it, and I think it does create weak plot points.
> I would rather have a consistently solid plot.

I can weaken the strength of the danger, but by itself that measure is only ignoring the problem and not really solving it.

This issue is worth a dedicated page.


# Prose

“Murderers!  Murderers!”

# Notes

Like in the first story, the main entrance has double doors.  (I can’t remember if I described that in the first book, but that is always how I envisioned it.)

[Adelle](../Data/Characters/Adelle%202ff1980fd10b42a7bc0f65b61a2ab3e8.md) witnesses the event as she is walking by on an upper hall/balcony.

I’m leaning toward the City of Orphans being outside the Asylum, but I’m still debating about that.
