---
labels:
  - NotionPage
title: Wizardry system
notion_id: 1c058e628ba280b9a9f0e23344e9ddc7
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/Articles/The Marloth technical system/Wizardry system 1c058e628ba280b9a9f0e23344e9ddc7.md
alias: Wizardry system
inferred_notion_path: Marloth/Articles/The Marloth technical system
created_at: 2025-03-24T01:49:00.000Z
modified_at: 2025-11-18T07:28:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Wizardry-system-1c058e628ba280b9a9f0e23344e9ddc7
notion_archived: false
---
# Wizardry system

# Contents

# Overview

The Wizardry system is:

1. One of the [Magic systems](Magic%20systems%201c058e628ba280b0b2e6c395dd9daddb.md).
2. Modeled after a combination of engineering and academia.
3. Very abstract, technical, and mathematical.
4. Involves many forces which wizards do not understand and cannot predict.
5. Is elitist—few people are born with wizard talents, and only a subset of those are accepted into wizardry circles.

# Terminology

Characters within the stories don’t use the term *Wizardry system*.

That term is only used for design purposes.

Characters refer to the Wizardry system as *magic*.

> 💡 Most characters are unaware of the [Dream system](Dream%20system%201c058e628ba280bea92adc9d0218c6e6.md), and think the Wizardry system is the only form of magic.

This page will likewise refer to wizardry as magic because while wizardry is a cool word, it gets clunky when used a lot.

# Circuitry

Magic in the Wizardry system is like a circuit board.

Magic is a mess of wires and operators running all over the place, connecting various physical objects together.

The operators and wires form a graph (vertices and edges).

There are different colors of wires and operators.

Each color has a distinct theme.  The themes overlap with the [Dream system](Dream%20system%201c058e628ba280bea92adc9d0218c6e6.md) (since the Dream system is even more thematic than the wizardry system).

The wires carry signals, and require power to transmit those signals.

# Interacting with magic

In order to interact with magic, a person must be able to:

1. See the magic
2. Understand the magic
3. Modify the magic
4. Have magical energy to expend (for the modification)

> 💡 Any operation which modifies magical systems requires some amount of magical energy, which is consumed.

Humans are born with varying combinations of those four abilities.

> 💡 There are very few creatures in the world that have all four of those abilities—at least to any significant degree.

# Magic ability distribution

Most people have trace amounts of at least one magic ability.

Roughly 4% of the population possess significant magical abilities. 

Roughly 1% of the population are never aware they have significant magical abilities.

# Magic ability and gender

> 💡 [Magic and gender conflict](../../Features/Magic%20and%20gender%20conflict%207b13ba4cf8344ed2ab4575da73a18f1f.md) 

For humans, each magic ability is more or less common depending on gender.

Most male wizards cannot store or channel magic.

Most female wizards cannot use magic.

The following table lists the percentage of human *wizards* which have certain abilities.

|  | Vision | Understanding | Modifying magic | Vessel / Channeling |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Men | 90% | 70% | 90% | 20% |
| Women | 60% | 70% | 10% | 60% |

> 💡 The ability variance between genders is partially why it is rare for anyone to have all four magic abilities.

> 💡 There is a tension between Vision and being a Vessel.
> Most wizards with Vision are not Vessels, and vice versa.

# Magical devices

It is possible for people to create devices which assist with or completely perform any of the four magical abilities.

Most professional devices are specialized and only assist with a single ability.

Professional devices are designed to be used with some combination of innate talent or additional devices.

Most consumer devices automatically handle all or most of the abilities and expect less from the user and other devices.

# Seeing magic

People who can see magic can only see certain colors.

Few if any people can see the fully spectrum of magic colors.

Some people can see certain colors more clearly than others.

If someone can partially see a color, it is easier to have a device augment and enhance the clarity of that color, than it is for a device to show someone a color that they can’t see at all.

> 💡 Most people who can see magic are men.

## Relation to normal vision

Seeing magic is subconscious and is effectively a sixth sense.

While seeing the magical threads can be described as seeing a tangle of wires throughout the world, it is not actually visually superimposed on top of what a person would normally see.

A person who can see magic does not walk around with a constant distraction of wires obscuring their view.

The cognition of wires is processed separately from visuals.

It takes some mental effort—and practice—to align magic cognition with normal visual cognition.

Otherwise, the two cognitive models are somewhat partitioned and independent.

# Understanding magic

Some people can see magic but do not understand what they see.

Magic is very technical, and requires technical aptitude.

Some people can see magic and don’t understand it, but could understand it if it was taught to them.

Some people can see magic and simply do not have the talent to understand it, even with training.

Some people can see magic and have enough talent to intuitively understand some aspects of it without training.

No matter how much talent a person has, magic is a complex field.  Serious magic proficiency requires years of study.

# Modifying magic

Practical magic modification requires being able to see magic.

## Blind modifiers

Usually if a person can modify magic, they can also see it.

However, there are some people who have the ability to modify magic, but cannot see it.

Unless such people are able to use devices which reveal magic to them, they may never realize they can modify magic.

In some cases, such people may chaotically alter the magic around them without realizing what they are doing.

# Magic energy

Modifying magic requires magic energy.

Wizards channel magic from either themselves or a device, and into particular aspects of their surrounding environment.

## Vessels

Some people can store magical energy.

Such people are called vessels.

> 💡 Most vessels are women.

## Channeling

> 💡 I’m not sure about limiting the term *channeling* to this idea.  I would like to use the term in other cases as well.
> However, I’m not sure what else to call this.  *Dimensional channeling* sound clunky.

Most vessels can channel magic energy from alternate dimensions.

Such people are called channelers.

Channeling is automatic.  Channelers do not consciously channel.  They are like a pool of water that is perpetually drawing water from its source as long as the pool is not full and there is still water in the source.

The amount of magic which can be channeled over time varies between channelers.

> 💡 Most channelers are women.

### Severing

There is a magical operation which severs a channeler from their source(s).

The operation is traumatic and can cause permanent physical and mental damage.

Severed channelers can still store magic.

## Transferring magic

There are a variety of ways magic can be transferred between humans.

Women are more conducive than men.

### Draining

Magic energy can be drained from people.

Draining magic works differently between men and women.

1. The only practical means of draining magic from men is to kill them.
2. Women can be drained without killing them.

Because of the difference, women are sometimes used as sources of magic, while men rarely are.

## Demons

Demons and some other fantasy creatures depend on magic energy for sustenance.

# Drift

Magic changes over time.

The changing of magic over time is called *drift*.

Wizards only have a vague understanding of the forces which cause drift.

When wizards create magical systems, they need to account for drift.

## Handling drift

The common solution is to create one or more complimentary systems:

1. Systems that mitigate drift.
2. Systems that compensate for drift.
3. Systems that warn users when significant drift has occurred.

Such systems need to employ some magic, but also leverage as much science as possible because science is more predictable.

> 💡 Wizards have no perfect drift compensation solutions.
> All wizard creations have some degree of instability.
> The degree of stability depends on the investment in stability, with diminishing returns.

> 💡 Depending on the magic composition, different parts of a system are more unstable than others.

## Drift detection

Wizards can periodically sample magic state to detect drift.

There are two forms of sampling:

1. Development sampling, which is performed by wizards while they are creating or maintaining magic systems.
2. Product sampling, which is implemented as supporting systems and run during normal operation.

## Drift mitigation

Secondary systems can be created that mitigate drift.

Drift mitigation is possible when a wizard has some understanding of certain forces causing drift.

In those cases, the wizard and create systems which buffer the system from the drift forces.

Drift mitigation is useful, but usually needs to be accompanied by drift compensation.

## Drift compensation

Secondary systems can be created that compensate for drift.

Drift compensation periodically realigns a target system toward its intended configuration.

# Madness

Due to the way magic overlaps with the [Dream system](Dream%20system%201c058e628ba280bea92adc9d0218c6e6.md), magic users experience the multi-dimensional effects of the Dream system and in turn its madness.

Wizards who overuse magic effectively become insane.

However, the insanity is usually not permanent and only lasts while the overdose of magic is affecting the wizard.

## Madness countermeasures

Wizards can create systems which allow increased use of magic with less of the madness side effects.

One of the simplest solutions is magical devices.  Magical devices act as intermediaries between the wizard and the magic, partially buffering the wizard from the magic.

However, magical device buffering is not comprehensive.

Even with magical devices, there is still some radiation which can affect nearby people over time.

# Technical magic

[Technical magic and instability](Wizardry%20system/Technical%20magic%20and%20instability%202af58e628ba28095a0c1dab32e614f69.md)
