---
labels:
  - NotionPage
title: Resourcefulness
notion_id: 1f558e628ba280a09c76c235bb0e0edb
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/Features/Resourcefulness 1f558e628ba280a09c76c235bb0e0edb.md
alias: Resourcefulness
inferred_notion_path: Marloth/Features
created_at: 2025-05-16T22:09:00.000Z
modified_at: 2026-02-25T04:34:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Resourcefulness-1f558e628ba280a09c76c235bb0e0edb
notion_archived: false
---
# Resourcefulness

> 💡 The current title of this page is a working title.

> 💡 Related to [Misfit underdogs](../Articles/Article%20archive/Misfit%20underdogs%20ef655d115952474090f8851b9d4067de.md).

For this feature, I’m attempting to capture some notion of a character who continually lives to fight another day through tenaciously thinking-outside-the-box.

> 💡 Originally inspired by the Terran campaign of *StarCraft: Brood War*, where Jim Raynor led kept his team alive by jumping through incredible hoops.
> Ever since then, I’ve wanted to incorporate similar resourcefulness into a story.

# Non-goals

## Wishy-washy

The resourceful solutions must be valid.

I hate the modern wishy-washiness which I first noticed in the show *Enterprise*, where the captain is faced with dilemmas, and instead of making a difficult decision, pulls a third option out of thin air.

> 💡 Contrast that with its Star Trek predecessors, where leaders had to regularly make difficult decisions, particularly in *The Next Generation*.

That was never thinking outside of the box, but always involved a mixture of hand-waving, wishful-thinking, and impossible odds.

## Simply reacting

Oftentimes heroes in movies are making things up as they go along.

For this feature, I’m not interested in basic tactical cleverness.

That *is* a form of resourcefulness, and Marloth stories can have some of that, but it’s not the kind of resourcefulness I’m trying to capture in this feature.

> 💡 This feature is about someone thinking in three dimensions when most of the people around them are thinking in two dimensions.
