---
title: Premise decomposition
notion_id: 20f58e628ba280c69893f36ae6a971bc
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/Articles/Premise decomposition 20f58e628ba280c69893f36ae6a971bc.md
alias: Premise decomposition
inferred_notion_path: Marloth/Articles
created_at: 2025-06-11T03:19:00.000Z
modified_at: 2026-05-23T15:57:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Premise-decomposition-20f58e628ba280c69893f36ae6a971bc
notion_archived: false
---
# Premise decomposition

One of the keys to the writing style I am developing and its use of [Surreal](../Features/Surreal%20cee6644b68094859bf1b17c5e7fd25de.md) and Implication is decomposing my premises.

My script writing teacher and mentor once said, “When you are writing a scene, throw out the first idea that comes to your head.”

The first knee jerk idea is usually a derivative trope.

Over the years, I’ve learned to take that idea even farther.

The first, second, third, etc. ideas I have are often shackled by presuppositions.

We need presuppositions.  We can’t practically think without them.

However, presuppositions can also be blindsides.

That is a small problem for most narrative styles, but it is a crippling for my narrative style.

> 💡 Some narrative styles thrive on routine and predictability.
> Not everything need be innovative.

# Reconciliation

One of the primary uses for decomposition is reconciliation.

When two ideas conflict, they rarely conflict in their entirety.

When two conflicting ideas are decomposed, the conflict is usually revealed to only exist between a couple of sub-ideas.

By removing one or more of the conflicting sub-ideas, the rest of the composition of the two ideas can remain intact and become compatible.

This process usually also reveals additional complimentary ideas which can patch the gaps created by the sub-idea removal.

The new ideas effectively act as bridges which bypass the previous conflict.

The revealed ideas are usually richer and more novel than knee-jerk ideas derived from direct premises.

# Decomposition scope

Decomposition can be applied at a variety of scales.

It can be applied at the macro level for high level ideas that span multiple scenes.

It can be applied at the scene level.

It can be applied toward individual elements/events within a scene.

# Efficient application

Premise traces are a practically infinitely branching rabbit hole.

It is neither practical nor possible to comprehensively analyze all premises for each scene.

Instead, it is useful to heuristically profile scenes and create a heat map of quality.

Elements that are clearly gold and act as anchor points for the rest of the story need less deconstruction (other than to capture why they work so well and how supporting elements can best complement them).

Elements that are weaker, and/or conflict with other scenes are prime categories for decomposition.
