---
labels:
  - NotionPage
title: Christian Gothic
notion_id: 22a58e628ba280939038f8c818c31a52
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/Articles/Christianity/Christian Gothic 22a58e628ba280939038f8c818c31a52.md
alias: Christian Gothic
inferred_notion_path: Marloth/Articles/Christianity
created_at: 2025-07-08T03:16:00.000Z
modified_at: 2025-07-20T19:09:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Christian-Gothic-22a58e628ba280939038f8c818c31a52
notion_archived: false
---
# Christian Gothic

# You can’t save the world

> https://leahmusic.bandcamp.com/track/save-the-world

It is common in modern epic fantasy for the protagonist to be saving the world from a powerful force of evil.  While I am still formalizing my ideas around this, I am increasingly reaching the conclusion that world-saving-stories are a practice that is both unhelpful and unhealthy.

World-saving-stories have several essential premises that are false:

- The world is mostly good
- The world can be comprehensively conquered or destroyed
- The world can be saved by someone other than Christ

That is humanism.

# Alternative

An alternative setting style is *Christian Gothic*.

Christian Gothic emphasizes and dramatizes the fallen state of humanity.

The world is fallen and wicked.

A remnant of good is trying to uphold virtue amidst a sea of vice.

Yet the heroes need not fear, for good cannot be snuffed out, and is the true foundation of the world.

The wicked are dependent upon a Creator they reject.

# Rules

## No world saving

The protagonist should never be trying to save the world.

With the possible exception for that goal to ultimately be subverted.

> 💡 With the further caveat that subverting primary story goals tends to result in conflicted stories and dissatisfied audiences

## Good is not fragile

Narratives should not create a sense that if a particular flicker of good is extinguished then all hope for the world is forever lost.

> 💡 The first Marloth book doesn't entirely keep this rule, but later books should

## Evil cannot rule absolute

The world should never be in danger of being comprehensively conquered by evil or destroyed.

A narrative can have characters afraid of such a possibility as long as that fear is eventually disproved, at least to the audience.

> 💡 Marloth is fractured into sub-worlds and those sub-worlds can be destroyed, though in such cases the residents wake up in a lower sub-world.

## Christ is the only savior

If the world ever is saved at a grand scale, it should be saved by a Christ-character, not a protagonist.

## External Condescension

It was condescension for God to give mankind is Word.

It was condescension for Jesus to descend to Earth as a man.

The Holy Spirit must regenerate our hearts before we can repent.

All goodness comes to us 

# Motivation

- World saving is a pretentious power-trip
- World saving loses all sense of scale and [relatability](https://github.com/silentorb/marloth-story/blob/master/design/general/marloth-narrative-guidelines.md#Personal)
    - It's ironic that when it comes to world building, save-the-world stories tend to have the most under-developed worlds
        - The world in such cases may still have much detail, but the audience only ever sees a slice of the world, so there is a general dissonance between the focused adventures and the comprehensive world that is being saved
- World saving is a lazy attempt to add grandeur to a story without any actual investment in deep impetus
- Presenting good as a tiny, fragile thing that can get permanently snuffed out is border-line blasphemous
- Such stories cultivate anxiety toward lofty issues the audience has no control over, and distracts from the smaller, immediate concerns the audience actually is responsible for
