---
labels:
  - NotionPage
title: Weak magic and major dreamlike shifts
notion_id: 22e58e628ba280c58c06e228f327db78
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/Data/Tensions/Weak magic and major dreamlike shifts 22e58e628ba280c58c06e228f327db78.md
alias: Weak magic and major dreamlike shifts
inferred_notion_path: Marloth/Data/Tensions
created_at: 2025-07-12T22:02:00.000Z
modified_at: 2026-02-02T02:51:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Weak-magic-and-major-dreamlike-shifts-22e58e628ba280c58c06e228f327db78
notion_archived: false
---
# Weak magic and major dreamlike shifts

I want Marloth stories to have two conflicting elements:

1. Avoid magic power creep by having magic use be under-powered—magic users need to make a little go a long way.
2. The dreamlike aspect of Marloth calls for radical global events and effects that are anything but under-powered.

# Resolution

I would like to employ the following concepts to resolve that conflict:

## Risk vs. Reward magic

Marloth magic should be inherently unstable.

The more powerful the effect, the more likely something will go wrong and the greater the harm if something goes wrong (sort of like critical chance and critical multiplier in Role Playing Games).

Magic users are incentivized to play things safe.

Magic users who take too many risks reap the consequences, which is great narrative fuel.

## Nature is more powerful

Similar to how nature is more powerful than humanity and humanity can only harness a fraction of it, so to natural magic can be devastating and humanity can only do so much to protect themselves from it.

A great example is lightning.  Lightning contains an insane amount of energy, but humanity has no way to directly capture that energy.  Any receptacle mankind has so far built will get fried if it catches a lightning bolt.

> 💡 Note that many of the global calamities in Marloth are evil.  I don’t want to depict *evil* as super powerful, or at least I want to do so responsibly.
> I may want to differentiate between neutral, natural calamities and wicked calamities.
> Though this may be moot if I can tie the calamity with God’s judgement.
