---
title: Design process - Good to bad
notion_id: 23158e628ba28090bcd5c8d3bd2e23f3
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/Articles/Design process - Good to bad 23158e628ba28090bcd5c8d3bd2e23f3.md
alias: Design process - Good to bad
inferred_notion_path: Marloth/Articles
created_at: 2025-07-15T02:54:00.000Z
modified_at: 2025-08-19T04:14:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Design-process-Good-to-bad-23158e628ba28090bcd5c8d3bd2e23f3
notion_archived: false
---
# Design process - Good to bad

# The traditional approach

Marloth is in subgenre described by such words terms as “Dark fantasy”, “Horror”, and possibly even “Melodrama”.

Normally, the writing process for such narratives is to start with the negative elements as the anchor points, and build from there.

From that process, there is usually little room for positive elements.  Positive elements usually surface as brief surprises.

The first Marloth book was written with that process.

# Transition

I don’t want to write any more books with that process.

TWOLD started off with that process, but over the course of it’s design I’ve gradually undone all of the negativity until I effectively had a clean slate and was able to a lay a foundation of good.

> 💡 Writers put too much weight no neuroticism as the source of drama.
> Neuroticism is *a* source of drama, but it is not the source of *poignant* drama.

# The alternative approach

Here’s the alternative process.

First plot out a happy story, end-to-end, full of good things.

> 💡 There can still be some ideas of bad things to incorporate, but at this stage they should simply be footnotes.

Once the good is well defined, *then* foils can be added to provide contrast.

And here’s the kicker: Once you have a well anchored good, you can safely pile on negative contrast around it.

The stronger the good, the more negativity you can pile around it and the good will stand firm.

> 💡 It’s like painting trees on a mountainside.  (*Sad little trees* in this case.)
