---
labels:
  - NotionPage
title: Excessive Quest
notion_id: 27b58e628ba28069a60de0a6394c902c
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/Articles/Excessive Quest 27b58e628ba28069a60de0a6394c902c.md
alias: Excessive Quest
inferred_notion_path: Marloth/Articles
created_at: 2025-09-27T17:39:00.000Z
modified_at: 2025-09-27T18:44:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Excessive-Quest-27b58e628ba28069a60de0a6394c902c
notion_archived: false
---
# Excessive Quest

# Background

Quests have existed throughout mythology, though they were most popularized by *The Lord of the Rings*.

However, while quests may have many metaphorical analogies to life, they don’t have many direct analogs to daily life.

Life does not normally consist of quests.

# Definition

Within the context of this article, quest is defined as a goal involving:

1. A journey
2. Adventure
3. Often a party of companions
4. Vested interest in the goal

> 💡 In recent gamification the term “quest” is sometimes generalized to simply mean “task”.
> The intent of that design is to have a task-based system and romanticize it.
> The scope of this article is only concerned with the more classic definition of “quest”.

# Excess

The prevalence of quests in modern narrative is excessive.

There is nothing inherently wrong with stories having quests.

The main purpose of this article is to counter-balance a cultural bias.

Any author growing up in this culture and attempting to write fantasy stories will have a knee-jerk inclination toward quests.

# Narcissism

There has been a subtle shift in the notion of quests from The Lord of the Rings to more recent narratives.

The Lord of the Rings romanticized questing, but it did so in a heavily WWII framed paradigm of “Men doing hard things in difficult times.”

Tolkien romanticized [duty](Responsibility%2023358e628ba280ca9e79ebeaa0fa931b.md).

> “A man’s gotta do what a man’s gotta do.” - John Wayne

Nowadays, questing is more often related to [Millennial narcissism](Millennial%20narcissism%2027b58e628ba280a197c6db3ebf0cf0d7.md).  “This task of mine is of epic import because it is what *I* am doing.”

Everything becomes a quest because everything the character does is either saving the world or of equal importance.
