---
labels:
  - NotionPage
title: Potential survival horror dangers
notion_id: 28458e628ba28099bf9dde1a919592c5
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/Features/Survival horror/Potential survival horror dangers 28458e628ba28099bf9dde1a919592c5.md
alias: Potential survival horror dangers
inferred_notion_path: Marloth/Features/Survival horror
created_at: 2025-10-06T00:46:00.000Z
modified_at: 2025-10-12T17:53:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Potential-survival-horror-dangers-28458e628ba28099bf9dde1a919592c5
notion_archived: false
---
# Potential survival horror dangers

# Overview

[Survival horror](../Survival%20horror%20dc101b6438cf43a8b5f1e17212b8c950.md) depends on danger.

Without danger, there is nothing to survive.

In order to be horror, most of the dangers in [Survival horror](../Survival%20horror%20dc101b6438cf43a8b5f1e17212b8c950.md) need to be *horrific*.

# Sustenance

I normally am not interested in basic survival (food, clothing, shelter).

However, some of this can bolster [Hospitality](../Hospitality%20cad51fd00b284dc094de3a19c1aed59c.md).

# Other survivors

Especially when there is at least the appearance of zero-sum games to the characters, sometimes the greatest danger to survivors is the other survivors.

I want to leverage this some, but I don’t want it to ever be the focus.

Some narratives like [The Walking Dead](../../Inspirations/Inspirations/The%20Walking%20Dead%201d28d505f48f437d8501aa594f07c6cb.md) reach the point where the zombies aren’t the threat, the other humans are.

For me, that gets old fast.

I don’t want other survivors to become a *greater* threat than the supernatural dangers.

> 💡 Though other survivors can *become* supernatural dangers.
> At that point they are no longer survivors—they are part of the environment.

# Death

Being horror, the standard danger would be some kind of monster that kills people.

I don’t really want fear of death to be a primary concern of Marloth stories.

# Undeath

Death is a major theme in Marloth, but so is undeath, which tends to trivialize the price of death.

Because of that, I am more interested in fates worse than death.

> And do not fear those who kill the body but cannot kill the soul. Rather fear him who can destroy both soul and body in hell - Matthew 10:28

# Corruption

[Cursed by manifestations of their sin](../Cursed%20by%20manifestations%20of%20their%20sin%20e6b7f4b5115f49f18d304c4660f5cbfb.md) 

# Disappearance

Maybe some force spirits people away and it’s never explained where.

I may not be able to get away with the destination never being explained.

This idea feels uncomfortably close to the Never-ending Story, which I don’t like.

The more I think about it, one character disappearing could remain a mystery, but I can’t pull that off if it is a central plot device.

While I don’t want TWOLD to be very visceral, it would be nice to have a little more of a visual indication of people’s doom.  Simply disappearing lacks that.

Even if it involved getting sucked into a giant wormhole, there still isn’t any post-fate.

Being killed leaves a body.

# Madness

I’ve been less interested in madness as a theme for the second book, but it’s still an option for a mass infliction.
