---
labels:
  - NotionPage
title: Post-apocalyptic narratives
notion_id: 29358e628ba2809b9d3bf8a81a87ceda
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/Features/Survival horror/Post-apocalyptic narratives 29358e628ba2809b9d3bf8a81a87ceda.md
alias: Post-apocalyptic narratives
inferred_notion_path: Marloth/Features/Survival horror
created_at: 2025-10-21T03:47:00.000Z
modified_at: 2026-04-21T06:50:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Post-apocalyptic-narratives-29358e628ba2809b9d3bf8a81a87ceda
notion_archived: false
---
# Post-apocalyptic narratives

In a way, I don’t like post-apocalyptic stories, yet they contain many elements that make [Survival horror](../Survival%20horror%20dc101b6438cf43a8b5f1e17212b8c950.md) work well.

It would be good for me to analyze what I don’t like about post-apocalyptic narratives and the benefits of that genre.

Potentially through that analysis I can find a way to extract what I want from the genre without relying on it.

# Features I dislike

## Pure entropy

Post-apocalyptic settings general involve civilization crumbling, leaving the survivors to pick the bones of what came before.

It usually involves humanity being in a non-sustainable situation.

## Suspension

However, often post-apocalyptic narratives artificially suspend the decay, and that irks me.

## Living in the past

Post-apocalyptic narrative is framed in the past.

The entire setting is an echo of what once was.

It’s one thing to have stories like the Lord of the Rings, which reflects on remnants of past civilizations, in the midst of more recent civilizations.

It’s another thing to have stories about a seemingly irretrievable past.

I prefer to live in the future more than the past.

> 💡 I want to create a sense that the party is either going to happen or is happening, not that the party has long been over.

## Grimdark

Post-apocalyptic narratives tend to lean toward [Grimdark](../../Articles/Grimdark%2027b58e628ba2805da1cfdda3eff41649.md) and the same mistake of oversimplifying society and what makes the world turn.

## Punk

Post-apocalyptic is often Punk, and I don’t like Punk.

# Strengths

## Desperation

Scarce resources provide a great catalyst for [Desperation](../Desperation%203c8bb63bea1440cba5eb8b570cecec24.md).

## Surrealism

Post-apocalyptic narratives present a surrealistic take on civilized environments.

Cities become playgrounds for the survivors.

It contains a juxtaposition between everyday environments and a war zone.
