---
labels:
  - NotionPage
title: Intuitive continuity
notion_id: 29458e628ba2809d980bf33a4949e9ea
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/Features/Intuitive continuity 29458e628ba2809d980bf33a4949e9ea.md
alias: Intuitive continuity
inferred_notion_path: Marloth/Features
created_at: 2025-10-22T07:29:00.000Z
modified_at: 2026-02-25T04:34:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Intuitive-continuity-29458e628ba2809d980bf33a4949e9ea
notion_archived: false
---
# Intuitive continuity

> 💡 Closely related to both [Journey - frequent new locations](Journey%20-%20frequent%20new%20locations%201d458e628ba280c085bdf51e33d114a4.md).

> 💡 This feature was moved as a non-feature under Surreal because I felt like it was a little redundant as a feature.
> However, I am increasingly dissecting surrealism into sub-features to the point where I may not need to directly refer to surrealism and instead connect the dots along its more precise children.
> With that in mind, I moved this back to being a feature.

# Definition

When sequential scenes lack plot continuity but make a certain abstract sense, providing surreal transitions from one scene to the next.

A stream of consciousness.

It’s important to emphasize that from a rational perspective, intuitive continuity has to make *no* sense.

# Reactive writing

To some degree, this feature needs to both feel like the author is making things up as they go along, and feel totally excusable for appearing like that.

It helps if the story *actually was* written on-the-fly, except that there are downsides to story quality with that approach.

# Example: Alice in Wonderland

One of the classic examples of this is in *Alice in Wonderland.*

Alice grows large, cries a flood of tears, shrinks to a tiny size, and finds herself lost in a sea of her own tears.

In an immediate sense, the plot is random and illogical, but in another sense, each transition relies on patterns in the ideas and elements.

# Example: True Love

From the song True Love:

> My heart **bleeds**
**Blood** hits the **ground**
The **ground** bears a **seed**
And a **rose** is found
