---
labels:
  - NotionPage
title: Technical magic and instability
notion_id: 2af58e628ba28095a0c1dab32e614f69
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/Articles/The Marloth technical system/Wizardry system/Technical magic and instability 2af58e628ba28095a0c1dab32e614f69.md
alias: Technical magic and instability
inferred_notion_path: Marloth/Articles/The Marloth technical system/Wizardry system
created_at: 2025-11-18T07:28:00.000Z
modified_at: 2025-11-18T07:39:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Technical-magic-and-instability-2af58e628ba28095a0c1dab32e614f69
notion_archived: false
---
# Technical magic and instability

# Problem

I want to apply cool technical innovations to magic.

However, the more I apply engineering principles to magic, the magical system quickly stops being an analogy for real world technology and practically becomes the same thing as the real world equivalent.

For example, when I go down the road of treating magical energy like electricity, before long the magic effectively is electricity.

As far as the user experience is concerned, there is no difference.

I want the magic systems to be right in the middle between familiar and foreign.

I can restrict the magic systems so they can’t become 1:1 analogies with science, but I would have to restrict them to the point of absurdity to pull that off.

# Solution

At least, that would be the case if I was using specific restrictions.

This is a general problem.

General problems need general solutions.

I think I know of a general solution which is already in the mix—a solution that is ready to be leveraged for these cases.

Magic is inherently unstable.

Magic is a moving target—any attempts to leverage it require constant adaptation.

Perhaps that’s why the old, less-scientific ways can appear to be more stable—the old ways are more *personal*.  They rely on sentient operators who can adapt (to a point).

Magic is harder to *automate*.
