---
labels:
  - NotionPage
title: Tea shop owner scoping
notion_id: 2cb58e628ba28067b6f6facdac8f5e13
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/Data/Characters/The Tea Shop Owner/Tea shop owner scoping 2cb58e628ba28067b6f6facdac8f5e13.md
alias: Tea shop owner scoping
inferred_notion_path: Marloth/Data/Characters/The Tea Shop Owner
created_at: 2025-12-16T08:59:00.000Z
modified_at: 2025-12-19T23:45:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Tea-shop-owner-scoping-2cb58e628ba28067b6f6facdac8f5e13
notion_archived: false
---
# Tea shop owner scoping

# Overview

The [Tea shop](../../Locations/Tea%20shop%2027e58e628ba2801795a5c6553b61bb15.md) needs an [owner](../The%20Tea%20Shop%20Owner%202cb58e628ba2805a96ecd5dd8f31e225.md) who [Adelle](../Adelle%202ff1980fd10b42a7bc0f65b61a2ab3e8.md)  reports to for [Adelle as a Barista](../../../Solutions/Adelle%20as%20a%20Barista%201d858e628ba280d9bac1cc43140ce0b9.md).

# Round 1

The owner would need to be a woman.

I can see potential for the owner being either older or younger than Adelle—I see less potential if they are the same age.

If the owner is older, than more likely she would be a respectable character Adelle looks up to.

If the owner is younger, she may be more knowledgeable about the business then Adelle but is also a little immature.

However, I’m picturing Adelle still being fairly young so I can’t imagine the owner practically being much younger than her.

# Round 2

Thinking about this more, I would rather have this be an older lady, both because:

1. I want more older people
2. There’s already more than enough younger people

To differentiate this character from [The Nurse](../The%20Nurse%20ae7cf88e2f574b81aa0e515dc0b8a1e5.md), I’m thinking she could be a generation older than her.  (Though the same generation may work as well.)

## Stable yet creative

This character should be the kind of person who would commit to a single business and not leave travel much.

That suggests someone grounded and happy with routine.

However, I also want the tea shop to have an air of creativity.  To have lots of nicknacks on the walls.

I don’t want the tea shop to simply be [Cozy](../../../Features/Cozy%2027e58e628ba280a889b9d93e442abcb8.md), it should be an *artsy* cozy.

Though not *too* artsy.

## INTP

I’m thinking maybe the tea shop owner could be an INTP.

Someone who is absent minded yet not in a ditzy way, but very contemplative.

Someone who could see the tea shop as a never-ending project to fiddle with and refine—a platform for exploration in small, safe ways.

A feminine laboratory (to a small degree).

Someone who is very interested in the technicalities of the craft—in this case—*tea*.

Someone always looking for new teas and exotic flavors.

Someone experimenting with recipes and carefully cataloging ingredients.

Someone who enjoys analyzing people and sees it as her mission to find the right tea for the right occasion for each person.

Someone who acts slowly, almost lethargically, but also methodically and efficiently.

Someone that seems cold at first and is difficult to get to know, but is steady and does care deeply about people in her own way.
