---
labels:
  - NotionPage
title: Analysis of fantasy engineering in Ghostbusters
notion_id: 2dc58e628ba280c98810c9934aea5eb6
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/Data/Tensions/Magic vs Engineering/Analysis of fantasy engineering in Ghostbusters 2dc58e628ba280c98810c9934aea5eb6.md
alias: Analysis of fantasy engineering in Ghostbusters
inferred_notion_path: Marloth/Data/Tensions/Magic vs Engineering
created_at: 2026-01-02T16:53:00.000Z
modified_at: 2026-01-02T16:53:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Analysis-of-fantasy-engineering-in-Ghostbusters-2dc58e628ba280c98810c9934aea5eb6
notion_archived: false
---
# Analysis of fantasy engineering in Ghostbusters

# Issue

In *Ghostbusters*, the main characters invent revolutionary ghost-capturing technology.

So what do they do?  Start a service business where they are the only providers of that service in the world.

Never once is it suggested that they start a business to mass produce the technology.

There’s an implicit elitism in the scenario.  The Ghostbusters can provide a service no one else in the world can.

In reality, people cannot invent such technology in a vacuum and remain ahead of the world for any significant period of time.

Reality is more competitive.

# Success

However, the *Ghostbusters* premise succeeds in part because it never gets near any of those questions.

*Ghostbusters* is a lighthearted, silly comedy.  It succeeds in suspending disbelief about the business situation and then has fun with the exclusivity of the *Ghostbusters*’ role.

If the foreground of ghost busting had been less engaging, or the story had broached on real-world tech business concerns, the suspension of disbelief would have been endangered.

I’m guessing no movie critic has ever reviewed *Ghostbusters* and said, “The movie doesn’t have a realistic business model.”

In that respect, *Ghostbusters* is a sort of fable or myth.  Audience’s enjoy it as an isolated scenario.

*Ghostbusters* takes place in a bubble.
