---
title: The Incredibles
notion_id: 36258e628ba2803db2c8e298b5ed3ee2
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/Articles/Other narratives/The Incredibles 36258e628ba2803db2c8e298b5ed3ee2.md
alias: The Incredibles
inferred_notion_path: Marloth/Articles/Other narratives
created_at: 2026-05-16T16:05:00.000Z
modified_at: 2026-05-16T18:50:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/The-Incredibles-36258e628ba2803db2c8e298b5ed3ee2
notion_archived: false
---
# The Incredibles

When I first saw *The Incredibles*, I was blown away by it, and for years it made a big impression on me.

In some respects, *The Incredibles* is the sort of story I want to tell.

However, over ten years after I first saw it, I started to realize *The Incredibles* is mostly an example of pitfalls I want to avoid.

*The Incredibles* is the right direction for me, but fails in the details.

> 💡 Ironically, my favorite Pixar movie has become *Cars*.  Even though its subject matter is not something I normally find interesting, *Cars* has the most profound, well articulated message of any Pixar movie.

# Family

The movie starts out as a deep exploration of family through a superhero lens.

However, by the third act, the story turns into a pure action movie.

There’s nothing wrong with action movies, but it creates a dissonance with its familial context.

In theory, with the right mechanics that dissonance could be resolved, but the movie doesn’t have any such mechanisms.

The movie starts off telling a story about a family that has superpowers.

By the end, the focus is flipped to a story about superheroes who also happen to be a family.

The initial question of the movie is, “How does a family with superheroes live a normal life?”

The final answer is, “They don’t need to!”

Instead, ship them off to a remote tropical island full of evil forces to fight.  Go full power fantasy and forget about everyday life.

Then, at the end of the movie, provide a few domestic scenes to suggest the extraordinary and ordinary are reconciled, when really nothing changed other than now superheroes are accepted by society.

## Social acceptance

That leads to a minor secondary problem.

The ending suggests that the problem was society’s fault.

Society wrongfully shunned superheroes.

Superheroes didn’t need to figure out how to live with society, society needed to figure out how to live with superheroes.

The ending creates the illusion of a character arc, when the main character arc was society, not the superhero family.

# Infidelity

The movie has a very tactful yet clear storyline of a spouse tempted with infidelity.

It’s a powerful storyline, and is handled well up until its conclusion.

In the final scene of that storyline, the whole issue is suddenly side-stepped by more pressing plot matters and never raised again.

That deflates the strength of the whole infidelity plot line, and inverts the value of the parable.

The moral goes from “Don’t fool around,” to “It’s okay to fool around a little as long as you end up back with your spouse.  And your spouse is being petty if they have any jealousy.  And the best way to solve marital problems is exciting distractions so you don’t have to fully talk things through.”

Part of this is writing problems, but they are careless mistakes.  Brad Bird was playing with live ammo and failed to handle the subject matter with enough care.

# Special

> Helen (Mrs. Incredible): "Everyone's special, Dash."
> Dash: "Which is another way of saying no one is."

While I think some of the intent is well-founded, the way *The Incredibles* approaches the issue of specialness creates as many problems as it solves.

It’s good to challenge the “Everyone should get a gold medal” mentality, but the movie is fighting humanism with humanism.

People are not owed things they did not earn.  Full stop.  It’s good to argue against that.

But the movie argues against that by focusing on “they shouldn’t get those things because I deserve them more.”

[Special vs. Common](../../Data/Tensions/Special%20vs%20Common%202c158e628ba280fda28dfb6acb77d8d8.md) 

## Evil plan

The evilness of the villain’s plan is purely contrived and plays out as a straw man argument.

Nothing about the villain’s plan is inherently evil.  He wants to mass produce technology that makes everyone superheroes.

There’s nothing wrong with that.

But he implements that plan in *an evil way*.

Heroes and villain have debates over specialness as if that is what is actually at stake, when really the heroes have no moral grounds to oppose an individual selling technology to others.

Implicitly, the moral ground for opposition is the villain killing people.

But the motivation for killing those people in the first place is extremely contrived.

The root problem is really more of a writing dilemma than a moral one: Brad Bird wanted to have his cake and eat it too and never effectively reconciled the two.

A villain wanting to take revenge on superheroes is a fine story.

A character wanting to mass produce superhero technology is also a fine story.

Brad Bird wanted to mix the two together and shipped the product before he found a method of reconciliation.

The end result is heroes that look good at first glance, but are actually snobbishly fighting against common people having the same abilities.

# Note on the sequel

I was more mixed about the sequel so I have less to say about it.

The main reason of analyzing the issues with the first movie is because at first glance it looks exactly like what I’m trying to do, which requires more surgical delineation.

From the get-go, the sequel is telling a story I agree less with.

But the main reason for this section is to provide a note.

Apparently the writer(s) of *The Incredibles* movies spent years wrestling with a worthy plot for a sequel.

At the time I appreciated that.  I can relate to wanting to do that and how hard it is for lightning to strike twice.

However, in hindsight and in light of the above analysis, I would say the real problem is Brad Bird never had a good handle on the subject matter.
