---
title: Nivana stumbles across her uncle
notion_id: 5d7cedab43344f0faef5f67730a77c5d
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/Scenes/Nivana stumbles across her uncle 5d7cedab43344f0faef5f67730a77c5d.md
alias: Nivana stumbles across her uncle
inferred_notion_path: Marloth/Scenes
created_at: 2024-03-29T07:12:00.000Z
modified_at: 2025-11-29T18:40:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Nivana-stumbles-across-her-uncle-5d7cedab43344f0faef5f67730a77c5d
notion_archived: false
---
# Nivana stumbles across her uncle

# Design

This scene was a flight of inspiration.

The prose below is raw.  It has some cool ideas but is clunky.

In the end, I don’t know that I’m still going this direction.

Now that I finally have a better foundation than the Nivana storyline and the Nivana storyline is properly a supporting thread, the relationship between Nivana and an uncle provides less value.

# Prose

Nivana stormed into the building and marched up to the nearest counter.

And found herself standing in front of her uncle [Uncle’s last name].

“You!” said each to the other in surprise.

“To think my own niece would bring me nothing but ruin!” said [her uncle], “How could you do that to me?”

“How could I?” Nivana said in shock, and she pointed toward the doorway.  “How could *you* use the Mediev [insignia] in such a place as this?  And to what end?  *Commerce?*”

“I don’t know what you’re talking about.” said the man, “*I’m* talking about human lives, and how you can so carelessly destroy them.”

“*I’m* talking about the Mediev name.  Currently our family crest is hanging outside in a common market.  It’s a disgrace!  You’re a disgrace!  I know grandfather taught you how to protect the Mediev honor, yet you act like you were raised on a farm!  By contrast, Father respects the Mediev name.  He would never allow you to get away with such a deed.”  Suddenly, she looked pensive,  “Actually, if Father saw our [crest] outside, he would probably have a heart attack first, hindering him from further intervention…”

Her uncle was furious and ready to explode into a stream of profanities, but he was also confused.  The mix of anger and confusion grew and swelled until finally…he burst out laughing.  His face grew red and tears streamed down his face.  He laughed so violently he nearly fell over.

“Here we are, in our respective states, and all you can speak about is a family [crest]?  Do you even realize where you are?”

Nivana glared.  “Why are you laughing?  This is a sacred matter!  But then again, nothing is sacred to you.”

The man motioned toward a doorway against the far wall.

“Come on back to my office.” he said.

“Why?” Nivana demanded.

“Because not everything needs to be a scene.”

Nivana was about to retort, and then for the first time she noticed the many sets of eyes staring at them.

“I know,” she said to the crowd, “The first time seeing a Lady can take some adjustment.” and then she followed him through the doorway.

[The walk down a hall and into his office.]

[The man sits down on his desk.  Nivana takes a set across from him.]

The [man] wiped tears from his eyes and likewise pointed out the doorway as she had before.  “What do you think that [coat of arms] stands for?”

Nivana straightened up into her lecture posture and said, “The Mediev [coat-of-arms] represents our dominion over the heavens.”

“The heavens?  The *heavens*?  Heavens no!  Nothing in our heraldry has anything to do with the sky.  It’s not dominion over the heavens.  It’s dominion over *magic*.”

For one of those rare and brief moments, Nivana was speechless.

Her response made [her uncle] chuckle.  “Lil’ Niv.  Fearless Lil’ Niv.  The Medievs aren’t the lords of the heavens, or even the lords of men, really.  The Mediev’s are the Lords of Magic.  Or at least…we used to be.”
