---
labels:
  - NotionPage
title: Asylum job - mixed realities
notion_id: ad3d2f22d8da45f4b49c71fa94c8ab79
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/Archive/Asylum job - mixed realities ad3d2f22d8da45f4b49c71fa94c8ab79.md
alias: Asylum job - mixed realities
inferred_notion_path: Marloth/Archive
created_at: 2023-11-15T02:27:00.000Z
modified_at: 2024-08-04T20:13:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Asylum-job-mixed-realities-ad3d2f22d8da45f4b49c71fa94c8ab79
notion_archived: false
---
# Asylum job - mixed realities

> 🚫 This idea has now been replaced by [Asylum job - Madness to magic](../TWOLD%20Plot/Arcs/Asylum%20job%20-%20Madness%20to%20magic%20c21886187a354560bc9c40d9b1de6df5.md).

# Overview

> 💡 I have another idea: what if I combine both storylines?  The scenes cut between two conflicting Asylum jobs?  James experiences both realities and can sort them out.

> 💡 This is the second iteration of asylum job ideation.  The first attempt was [Asylum job - doctor doppelganger](Asylum%20job%20-%20doctor%20doppelganger%2047350fee11714a588be08aaeffda8405.md).

All my initial ideas for this have been destructive, but what about something more constructive?

Part of my original vision for James job was [for it to be more positive](../Features/James%E2%80%99%20job%201e3a028f3cd8477ba69306ef8654f553.md).

Instead of a doctor having a problem that needs fixing, what if the doctors want assistance with an experiment?

What if the morality of the experiment is questionable?

What if the experiment goes horribly wrong, and the agency is partially to blame in supporting it?

That is far closer to where I was wanting to go with the earlier depictions of agency life.

# The Experiment

So what is the experiment?

One of the main pursuits of the Asylum doctors is to “cure madness”.

What if they created a treatment that used magic?

What if that use of magic was subtle and indirect, like leveraging some hip, new magic technology?

# Magic tech

What sort of magical technology could it be?

I’d like it to be embodied by some distinctive object.  The object would act as a sort of symbol, and have a particular theme.  It would be light, portable, and have a high monetary value.

> 💡 It might be good to start pulling together a set of themes and symbols for magic in Marloth.
