---
labels:
  - NotionPage
title: Immersive survival dark fantasy
notion_id: c81a98e8173e4b889b2218d8b014dadc
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/Articles/Immersive survival dark fantasy c81a98e8173e4b889b2218d8b014dadc.md
alias: Immersive survival dark fantasy
inferred_notion_path: Marloth/Articles
created_at: 2023-11-06T01:54:00.000Z
modified_at: 2025-10-06T02:58:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Immersive-survival-dark-fantasy-c81a98e8173e4b889b2218d8b014dadc
notion_archived: false
---
# Immersive survival dark fantasy

# Overview

I think what I’ve been leaning toward with TWOLD, but haven’t formalized, is a sub-genre of:

1. [Immersive](The%20four%20categories%20of%20fantasy%20248eb72cbd0a4e368f9c19e0894c3ea2.md) (+mind-bending)
2. [Survival](../Features/Survival%20horror%20dc101b6438cf43a8b5f1e17212b8c950.md)
3. Dark fantasy

# Immersive

The first Marloth book alternates between all [four categories of fantasy](The%20four%20categories%20of%20fantasy%20248eb72cbd0a4e368f9c19e0894c3ea2.md), though the last two parts of the book mostly settle into immersive.

For the second book I have largely leaned toward immersive.  The contrast of ordinary and fantastic heightens the fantasy, but at the end of the day, I don’t care that much about that.  I’m okay with the fantasy starting to feel ordinary.  I have so many goals and ambitions, that contrast is one piece of cargo I’m willing to throw overboard for the sake of other items.

I would still like the story to toy around with there being larger, more alien and frightening dimensions beyond the current one, but that is a nice-to-have and doesn’t need to be a driving force.  It’s fine as background, and probably works best that way because its one of those things that if too much weight is placed on it, the end is disappointment.

Mystery loses its wonder once it is solved.

That ties back with what I tried to do in the first book—have lots of mystery that attention is never drawn to.  Once plot focuses on a mystery, the audience is dissatisfied if the mystery isn’t solved.  But as long as a mystery isn’t focused on and is accompanied by some slight-of-hand, then the target audience can enjoy the splash of mystery without later dissatisfaction.

So in summary, immersive with a splash of intrusive.  And a splash of occasional liminal to subvert.

# Survival

[Survival horror](../Features/Survival%20horror%20dc101b6438cf43a8b5f1e17212b8c950.md) 

The first part of TWOLD won’t have much survival, but I’d like to ramp that up in the second part, and from there keep it fairly perpetual.

I like how survival horror puts constant pressure on every character in the setting.

It is a great test of ideologies and mettle, bringing things normally hidden to the surface, making it far easier to explore the issues and themes I want to address.

## Glue

Survival horror helps pull the story together.

The first book was pulled together by Adelle being a MacGuffin.  That was kind of accidental and normally I’m not a big fan of MacGuffin plots.

I’ve avoided such devices in the second book.

However, that does leave a bit of a void as to how else to bind so many independent threads together, and global survival is a good start.

## Impetus

Also, survival horror is a powerful impetus, and I’ve had a hard time finding good impetus for TWOLD.  It adds immediacy and drive to the setting and plot.

> 💡 I’ve been increasingly leaning toward worrying less about impetus and experimentally seeing if my investment in every other aspect of the story can make the story compelling enough.
> However, if there’s any good impetus lying around that would fit perfectly with what I’m doing, I’ll gladly run with it.

# Dark fantasy

This is already the most established aspect of Marloth.
