---
labels:
  - NotionPage
title: Stability vs. Journey
notion_id: d03e09bc477b4ef0be148b5e7071d406
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/Data/Tensions/Stability vs Journey d03e09bc477b4ef0be148b5e7071d406.md
alias: Stability vs. Journey
inferred_notion_path: Marloth/Data/Tensions
created_at: 2024-01-15T01:47:00.000Z
modified_at: 2026-02-04T03:26:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Stability-vs-Journey-d03e09bc477b4ef0be148b5e7071d406
notion_archived: false
---
# Stability vs. Journey

> 💡 I’ve realized now that stability vs. journey really isn’t the best way of defining what I am searching for.
> [Family Wonderland](Family%20Wonderland%200d8118d292f2464082e5fe738ef611d6.md) better encapsulates the issues I’m wrestling with on this page because:
> 1. Family/communal responsibility is the main reason I am interested in depicting stability.
> 2. Wonderland is a really what I am interested in, with journey being an aspect of Wonderland.

# Overview

There are two things I want:

1. A stable story about community.
2. A dynamic story about following the current.

Can those two things be reconciled?

# Data point: my life

In a way, this tension reflects my own life, yet it seems like the Lord has largely provided the means for me to reconcile them.

What I am trying to do now is reconcile them in a fantasy story.

I’m a restless soul that doesn’t like to leave my house.  My life is comprised of two parts, the stable part that I don’t want to change, and the volatile part that is changing all the time.

The physical part is stable.  The abstract part is dynamic.

Normally, that dichotomy appears in stories as Portal fantasy or Liminal fantasy, but I don’t want Marloth to be either of those.  I want Marloth to be immersive. [](https://www.notion.so/a396164a056244e4a325bb167bce95d8?pvs=21).

That leaves a dichotomy with a stable fantasy and a dynamic fantasy.

# Injected stability

[Injected stability](../../Features/Injected%20stability%2054190f7026bf4beb96bc5ef39de248ee.md) 

# Fantasy depictions

What if I depict the stable and unstable as conflicting forces?

[Static vs. dynamic depiction](Stability%20vs%20Journey/Static%20vs%20dynamic%20depiction%20f4f48ab1ec364ad7b41829762eaae351.md)
