---
title: "Dangerous commute"
notion_id: "15258e628ba280309ab4d3d30701427b"
aliases:
  - "Dangerous commute"
source_export: "external/notion/Marloth/Solutions/Dangerous commute 15258e628ba280309ab4d3d30701427b.md"
inferred_notion_path: "Marloth/Solutions"
priority: "High"
---
# Dangerous commute

Features: Dangerous city (../Features/Dangerous%20city%20f2ec9bb510dc440b96920e4651a259be.md)
[Products: TWOLD](twold-e028aa0786f5449984a4f497c1d746fa.md)
[Scenes: Adelle and the Nurse running errands](adelle-and-the-nurse-running-errands-18058e628ba280c488b3c493ef731c08.md)[, Commuting to the Asylum](commuting-to-the-asylum-17f58e628ba28021af5ce566efcfae17.md)

For the current recipe of [Cozy horror](../Features/Cozy%20horror%20e5cc80dc61ed4c629951cdf472b20b7a.md) I am developing, an essential ingredient is a dangerous environment outside.

Characters cannot stay inside their house indefinitely and must periodically brave the outside world.

The outside world needs to be flooded with horrific dangers.

Commuting to work, shopping, and visiting neighbors—each of those excursions is an adventure.

# Preparation

Traveling even a short distance has weight to it, and requires preparation.

People cannot just wander off into the dark.

# Escorts

Perhaps there could be a business of well-armed muscle that act as body guards, escorting people from one place to another like walking taxis.

Maybe there could also be some form of vehicular transportation as well.

## Cars

Along the line of escorts, I’ve been considering the possibility of kicking up the anachronism and including cars in TWOLD.  They add so much to city streets.

Regardless of whether I add them in TWOLD, I am definitely adding them in the third book.

<aside>
💡

If I do have cars, it would be kind of fun to have taxi drivers with guns, firing at monsters to protect their customers.

</aside>

# Dangers

[Environmental dangers](environmental-dangers-15358e628ba280bab89ce7f081e74416.md)