The Darkness was spreading.  The clouds had gathered thickly above.  The
landscape was twisting itself closed like a withering flower.  In the
shadows, they watched and waited.  They were growing restless.

For at the edge of the world, a light had broken through the turbulent
sky, falling upon a castle that rose above the shadows.  Sunlight by
day.  Moonlight by night.  The castle seemed untouchable.  They wanted
it.  Even more, they wanted what it contained.  The castle's defenses
were strong, but they had plotted for a long time, and soon they would
be

In one of the tallest towers was the bedroom of a little girl.  Her name
was Adelle.  She was oblivious to the hatred and anguish that had
engulfed the land.  As she looked out of her window, all she saw was
mystery and excitement.  The world seemed to be beckoning to her.  And
in fact, it

Every night, Adelle's mother would come to put her to bed and tell her a
bedtime story.  She would tell her about heroes and princesses and wars
and legends.  Everything that made for a good tale and a happy ending.
 And sometimes, when her mother was particularly moody, she would tell
Adelle about ordinary people.  She would tell of an orphanage far away,
where the children played all day long.  She never finished the story.
 She would always shake herself as though just waking up and move on to
the age-old story about the pirate ship that sailed along the ocean
floor.  She would apologize and say that there were things about the
orphanage story Adelle shouldn't hear about.  Then, she would kiss her
goodnight, douse the light, and disappear

Adelle always thought this was funny, and wondered why her mother kept
bringing up the story if she didn't think she should tell it.  As Adelle
would fade into sleep, she would imagine what dreadful things might be
in the story. And so she would dream about orphanages and dark
occurrences of which mothers never
