# Part 1

Once upon a time, nestled deep within the heart of a nameless city,
there was an orphanage. Most people would never have taken a second look
at the building. Perhaps it was because the surrounding buildings
dwarfed it, or because the busy river which ran through the city passed
right beside it, further taking away attention. But most likely it was
the wall---a wall that rose nearly ten feet high and completely
surrounded the building. Whatever the case, the orphanage seemed to fade
into the background so completely, one would almost think an enchantment
had been cast upon it, veiling it from the rest of the city. Every now
and then, a person walking down the street might pause for a moment,
imagining that they had heard a chorus of laughter, carried along the
breeze like the ghost of a childhood long since left behind. But it was
not imagined, for behind these walls, beyond the touch of the world, the
orphans laughed and played.

This was the orphanage of Edward Tralvorkemen. Mr. Tralvorkemen was one
of those beings who believed that all one had to do in life was to
dispel all of the bad, and naturally all that would be left would be
good. And since good is generally considered a rather good thing to
possess, Mr. Tralvorkemen was determined to remove every shade of evil
from the world.

Or at least from his orphanage.

Thus the orphanage was a separate entity unto itself, completely removed
from the bustling city around it. The headmaster was consumed by a
hatred and fear for the outside world. He had volumes of written rules
to keep the children in line and vehemently forbade them to ever go
beyond the wall, as though the orphanage was poised on the very edge of
hell. To disobey in the slightest would result in the most severe of
discipline.

The children had no interest in Tralvorkemen's vision. They were
determined, nay, obsessed with escaping his rule. But they were young
and naive and knew little of the world beyond the wall. All they had
were their imaginations. So they smiled, nodded, and painfully played
along with his rules. But the moment they were out of his sight, their
own world would come alive. A world without any wicked headmasters; a
world without any of his rules. They would have grand adventures and
slay evil monsters, the evilest of them being the dark warlock
Tralvorkemen. In their world, they were the rulers, and they could do
whatever they pleased.

As for the orphans themselves, it would be helpful to describe some of
the most notable of the children.

Miles was the unofficial (and sometimes disputed) leader of the orphans.
Not only was he the eldest, but he also possessed the wit, charisma, and
determination which caused people of all types to stop and do his
bidding. It seemed that no one was immune to his charm. Well, that is
not entirely true, for there was one man in the world who was immune to
his charm, and that person happened to be their headmaster. Mr.
Tralvorkemen identified Miles as trouble and always had an especially
attentive eye on the boy.

Nivana was a clever girl. She loved the adoration of her peers, and she
had a gift for amassing it. She also loved to identify and remove the
flaws in those same peers, though with far less success. Much of her
time was spent trying to undermine Miles. Miles tried to ignore her.

George was one of the older boys. He was fascinated by the way things
worked, and enjoyed making things of his own. Mr. Tralvorkemen had taken
note of this and encouraged the boy to maintain much of the orphanage.
While George preferred making new things to repairing existing ones, he
still relished these tasks and saw them as an honor. Because of his
skills and responsibilities, George had taken on a few illusions of
grandeur. None of the other children could construct things like him and
he felt that he had the most grown-up talents of them all.

Millamer was something of a prankster. He thrived upon chaos and had the
tendency to break things. He also had an uncanny gift for getting out of
trouble and laying it upon everyone else. He had managed to get into a
strange friendship with George where he would butter up the fellow with
praise, be allowed to borrow one of George's latest creations, and then
eventually break it due to his manic recklessness. Millamer had found
that if he further pumped up George with praise, the boy would forget
about the destroyed creation and the process would start all over again.

Brenda was a simple and straightforward person. One of those people who
can fly because they don't know that flight requires wings. Some say
ignorance is bliss. For her it was a supernatural power. She was the
only girl to join in the boy's games of War, which the boys would have
found most awkward except for the fact that she was utterly oblivious to
any such awkwardness, and somehow that made everything all right. She
did not like the world of gossip and pettiness that most of the other
girls inhabited; she related to the boys' methods of handling things. If
a girl disliked another girl, she would spread unpleasant rumors or drop
veiled criticisms. But if a boy disliked another boy, he either punched
him or yelled at him, which made so much more sense and was a lot more
fun.

Catherine was both pretty and precocious, and was the sort of person one
would expect to be loved by all. However, she had one attribute that
stunted her status with the other children: she was the only child who
sympathized with Mr. Tralvorkemen. Because of this, the girls mocked her
and the boys avoided her. She still joined in most of their games, but
no matter how hard she tried to avoid it, her interactions with them
were laced with unpleasantness. The only girl that treated her with
kindness was Brenda, who, even though she did not like the headmaster,
saw no reason why a person's opinion of someone should affect her
opinion of someone else. She liked Catherine's compulsive honesty, and
how their interactions did not require the politics she disliked so much
with the other girls.

There was one boy who did not play and scheme with the other children.
His name was James. None of the other children knew what had happened to
him before he had been brought to the orphanage, but they did know that
he had once resided in an institution, and occasionally when he was not
around they would speculate as to what sort of dreadful things must have
happened to him. He rarely spoke and never smiled. All of his free time
was spent in dark corners, reading a large, worn-out, leather bound
book. Its name was Marloth.

Within its pages were stories of a world far more magical and wonderful
than anything the children could have possibly invented. Tales of heroes
rescuing princesses and slaying villains. There were talking animals and
surreal landscapes. But what he liked most about the book was that it
too had an orphanage. An orphanage that was run by a kindly headmaster
who loved the children in his care. A headmaster who wrote fantasy
stories and taught the children to grow up to be heroes who were sent
into the world and had adventures of their own, facing incredible
dangers to rescue those in need.

The other children looked upon James with curious pity. Aside for
George, who had little interest in fiction, none of them could read well
enough to comprehend all of the large words the book used, and even
though they generally enjoyed a good fairytale, they left James to read
it on his own. Not only did Marloth use large words, it was also
composed of more than one language. James could only read one of those
languages, and even then he was only able to do so with a dictionary of
Mr. Tralvorkemen's by his side. As he stumbled through Marloth he would
look up nearly every other word, and since he did not know most of the
words the dictionary used in its definitions, he would have to look
those up as well. It was a very slow and laborious process, though it
gradually grew easier as his vocabulary expanded.

Aside from James, only Catherine was interested in the book. Whenever
Catherine had grown too frazzled by Nivana and the other girls' constant
lording it over her, she would retreat to whichever cranny James was
curled up in and ask him to read to her from his book. James loved
having someone to read to. He took great pleasure from watching her
expressions of excitement and concern as he stumbled through the book.
Sometimes when she was feeling especially enthusiastic she would assist
him in looking up words in his dictionary.

Occasionally, Miles would manage to break James out of his little world
long enough to play with the others. The children greatly enjoyed James'
company, for he always provided a refreshingly outlandish perspective on
things. With Miles' sensibilities and finesse combined with James'
rampant imagination, they made a good team and would sometimes host
puppet shows. But after a time, James' focus would fade and he'd sink
back into a corner and continue struggling through his book.

As for Tralvorkemen himself, he was a man of business and had many
ventures by which he supported the orphanage. Whenever he was not
overseeing the children, he was busy corresponding, processing
paperwork, or meeting with other businessmen. He arranged his operations
so that he had to leave the orphanage as little as possible, though
occasionally he would need to take extended business trips, during which
a nanny would be brought in to watch the children.

* * *

Chores, lessons, and play. As far as the children knew, this was the
routine they would follow for the rest of their lives. But one day,
everything started to change.

It began with a monkey. The children were busy maintaining the garden
when the creature leapt over the wall and into the middle of the
courtyard. It wore a blue shirt lined with glittering buttons and a red
cap tied upon its head. On its back was a large satchel filled with
papers. The monkey looked at the astonished children with insolent
disinterest and, reaching into the satchel, removed an envelope and set
it on the ground. With that the monkey bounded onto the wall, took one
last look at the children, and was gone as fast as it had appeared.

Instantly the children converged upon the envelope.

"I wonder what could be in it?" said Henry.

"Well don't just stand there, open it!" Nivana cried out.

"Hold on!" said George. "What if Mr. Tralvorkemen is expecting this? If
he found out we opened his mail, he would punish all of us!"

"Nonsense!" said Miles. "The bloke would never have anything to do with
a monkey! Could you see him waiting for a chimp to bring his mail? If
you all are too scared of the likes of him, I'll open the envelope and
catch the blame myself. I'm so bored I'd take a flogging just to get
some action around here."

Before anyone else could object, he slit the envelope open with his
knife. The children were delighted when he extracted an elegant document
printed on a paper that resembled parchment.

"What is it?"

"Let me see!"

"It's got so many words!"

"I can read it just fine." said Miles as he scrutinized the text. "It
appears to be an advertisement for 'Jakob Damond's Toy Shoppe.' Here, it
has a slogan: 'Where fantasy becomes reality.'"

Shouts of joy burst all around.

"It's opening on Wilkes Street where the old parsonage used to be. Here
it has a list of some of the toys."

At this point most of the others were practically climbing on top of him
to see if they could catch a glimpse of the paper.

"Tell us! What toys are there?"

"Well, it says there are dolls that can speak to you."

"That's ridiculous!" said George. "Dolls can't talk!"

"I'm just reading what it says. There's more. Here it's got books with
pictures that move!"

"Seriously? It must be magic!"

"And pogo sticks that can bounce two stories high."

"Are such things possible?"

"If there's such a thing as heaven, there must be toys like that!"

"I'd give my right arm to see this store!"

"I'd give your right arm too!" said Miles. "Forget this gardening trash!
I'm hopping the wall and---"

"Why are none of you working?"

Everyone froze. That is, except for their heads, which slowly turned to
gaze up at Mr. Tralvorkemen. None of them said a word.

"I repeat my question. Why are none of you at work?" Spotting the paper
in Miles' hands, he reached down and tore it away from him.

"What is this?" he demanded. "If it is another defaming depiction of me
I ... will ..." His words trailed off as he scanned the paper. His face
noticeably paled and when he finally spoke, he was so hoarse they could
hardly discern his words.

"Where did you get this?" he asked. The children did not respond, but
instead tried to avoid his gaze. Suddenly he burst into shouting.

"WHERE DID YOU GET THIS?" he repeated. Everyone snapped to attention.

"It's hard to say," said Miles quickly. "We think it was probably
carried over the wall by the wind."

"The wind! Don't mock me! The only way a document like this could make
it into your hands is if---" He stopped again. The anger quickly
subsided. For a moment a hint of fear flashed across his face, and then
he straightened himself and made an admirable attempt at changing his
demeanor. "The wind, yes, of course. There was some rough weather this
morning. Blew over the wall. Yes, that must be it."

He turned to go and then, as if suddenly remembering something, turned
back to face them and said in a firm tone, "Wind or no wind, under no
circumstances are you to ever go near this toyshop. Ever. Under no
circumstances are you ever to possess any advertisements from this
toyshop. Ever. Under no circumstances are you to ever discuss these toys
amongst yourselves. Ever. These are my words, and they are final. Do I
make myself clear?"

The children nodded, if begrudgingly. Tralvorkemen likewise nodded and
returned into the orphanage, immediately tossing the advertisement into
the fireplace.

"Well, he shouldn't worry about seeing such stuff," Miles muttered as he
grabbed his spade. "Next time I get my hands on a paper like that, he
won't catch a hint of it!"

* * *

The next day, the children were spending the mid afternoon on the
orphanage roof and watching the goings on of the city around them. The
roof of the orphanage was flat and had a two foot wall lining its edges
to reduce the chance of a random child falling off. Most of them were
sitting around lazily, simply enjoying not having to do any chores at
the moment. James sat in one of the corners, reading his book. Miles sat
at the edge of the roof, looking at the city through a toy spyglass.

"What are you looking at?" asked Mary.

"I'm trying to see if I can catch a glimpse of that monkey." said Miles.
"I figure if I get its attention maybe it will give us another
advertisement. I'll give it a banana or something if I need to."

"That would be capital!" said Millamer. "Since yesterday all I can think
about is that toyshop! What I wouldn't give to buy something from that
place!"

"What would you buy?" asked Brenda.

"That would be so hard to decide! I don't even know what all the store
sells."

"Well, imagine something. What would you want the store to sell?"

Millamer thought for a moment and then smiled. "I'd want a gun. A gun
that children can play with but fires real bullets. No, not
bullets---large balls of fire! Think of it! I could be blowing holes
through walls right and left!"

"Give a weapon to Millamer?" said Nivana. "That would be the death of us
all! I don't feel safe with Millamer holding a fork and spoon, much less
something that could punch a hole through my head! No, if I were to buy
something from the toyshop I would buy something much more constructive.
For instance, a wand that could make people like Millamer civilized.
*That* would be magic!"

She smiled and looked over at Miles. "And what would you buy, Miles?"

Miles did not look away from his spyglass but said, "You blokes
always think so small. I don't want to buy any toys. I want to find out
how he makes them! I've never heard of anyone making things like that
before. He must be using something no one else knows about! Some kind of
magic or something. If I find out what it is then I could use it too.
Then I could make whatever toys I wanted!"

"I don't think it's magic." said George. "I'm sure there's a scientific
explanation for how these toys do what they do."

"Maybe so, but either way it's pretty impressive and I'm going to find
out what it is. And then I won't need Tralvorkemen or this Damond bloke!
I'll be able to open up my own toyshop and then it will be just toy,
toys, toys for everyone!"

"Stop it!" said Catherine. "Stop talking about those toys! Mr.
Tralvorkemen told us not to talk about the toyshop, much less scheme
about ways to buy things from it! This is wrong!"

Nivana gave a brief, icy laugh. "Listen up everyone," she said. "Queen
Catherine is here to set us straight! Her first decree is to ban all fun
from the realm. Anyone who so much as thinks about having fun will be
promptly burned at the stake. Or thrown into the fireplace if no stakes
are at hand."

Catherine looked embarrassed. "I never said I was Queen. I was just---"

"Look at those children in the streets!" said Millamer, pointing below
them. "They have toys from that advertisement!"

Aside from James, (who didn't seem to hear), all of the children rushed
to the side of the roof and peered over the edge. Sure enough, down
below were several children running about and playing with shiny new
toys.

"That should be us!" said George. "If it wasn't for Mr. Tralvorkemen
that *would* be us!"

"Look at them!" said Miles. "They're spoiled brats! They have all of
those incredible toys and they don't even look like they're having fun!
They look bored!"

"That's because they're dead." said James.

Everyone turned to stare at him. He was sitting there serenely reading
his book.

"What do you mean?" asked Millamer.

James closed the book and walked over to the edge of the roof.

"See, if you look closely, they've all got glazed over looks. Like
they're wearing glasses but they're not. And their skin is pale. And
they've got a good deal more cuts and scratches than we do. That's
because they've been zombified. They died some time ago and then someone
went and reanimated the lot of 'em."

"People can do that?" said George.

"Yup. All you need is the right mixture of magic and science."

"So if they're dead, what happens if you kill them?" asked Millamer.

"Nothing, I suppose. You can't be killed twice."

"They'd be invincible!" said Miles.

All of them turned to stare at the street children with new interest,
except for James, who went back to his reading.

"Now that you mention it, they do seem rather dead looking." said
Nivana.

"I still hate them." said Miles. "If even zombie children can have
enchanted toys, why can't we?"

"Because we have something better!" said Catherine. "We have Mr.
Tralvorkemen! He protects us! I bet the parents of those children don't
care for them at all!"

Nivana looked genuinely amazed. "Tralvorkemen ... better than magical
toys? That's the most idiotic thing I've ever heard, even from you! Do
you mean to tell me that you actually don't want any of these toys?
Honestly, you're a child and you have a pulse; don't you find these toys
absolutely fascinating?"

Catherine looked to be fighting inside herself and finally said, "Yes! I
admit it! They are very fascinating!"

"And wouldn't you want one?"

"Yes! Desperately!"

"Then why in the world are you arguing with us?"

"I don't know! I want to obey Mr. Tralvorkemen! He's a grown-up, and he
reads really big books all the time. He must know more about these
things than we do!"

"Like you said, he's a grown-up. He might know tons about grown-up
stuff, but what would he know about toys? Nothing! He doesn't understand
them! He doesn't understand our need for them! And he *doesn't* care for
us. He's never had a stitch of fun in his life and he's going to make
sure we don't either!"

"I'm sure he has a good reason." said Catherine weakly.

"Then you really are a tragedy." said Nivana, feigning pity. "When we
finally get our own toys just like those children down below, we'll be
off enjoying them while you'll be all alone hating yourself for your
foolishness. If you don't want to hear people talking about toys I
suggest you leave."

There was a long silence. Catherine glanced over at James in the hope of
finding some support from him since he was the only child who did not
seem to be interested in the toyshop, but he was too absorbed in his
book. With her insides turned in knots, she bowed her head in
resignation and made her way down stairs, leaving the others to their
talk of toys.

* * *

Several days passed, and yet the children made no progress toward
visiting Jakob Damond's Toye Shoppe. One difficulty was that they were
not exactly certain of the toyshop's location. The city in which they
lived was vast and they had neither map nor much knowledge of the city's
layout. Due to his age, Miles was the only orphan that Mr. Tralvorkemen
would use to send on errands, so the boy knew how to navigate to a few
locations, and he had a vague notion of where Wilkes Street was, but
could not say for sure.

But there was an even more immediate obstacle. The day after the
advertisement incident, Mr. Tralvorkemen purchased a dog. None of the
children were sure what he did with the dog during the day or where it
went, but every night he would unleash it upon the orphanage yard. It
was not a friendly dog. Several of the orphans tried to befriend it but
the creature seemed unaffected by all of their efforts and would snarl
and growl when any of them drew near. It was a truly frightful night
watchman that could not be reasoned with.

The third obstacle was Tralvorkemen himself. Despite all of the
children's talk of rebelling against the headmaster, all of them, even
Miles, harbored a subconscious fear that if they were ever to sneak off
to the toyshop, the headmaster would somehow discover their disobedience
and be more wrathful than they had ever experienced before. They had no
choice but to bide their time and hope for an opportunity to present
itself.

* * *

It was tradition in the orphanage to spend cold evenings in the living
room. Against the main wall of the room there was a large fireplace, and
around this landmark various pieces of furniture were arranged. The
children would gather all over the room to play games, make crafts, read
picture books, while Tralvorkemen would sit in his armchair by the fire,
absorbed in a book on religion or metaphysics.

Here is an example of one such evening not long after the advertisement
incident. The children were playing with a restrained amount of noise.
Tralvorkemen was reading by the fire. Miles was constructing a new
puppet, though it was Catherine who was doing the actual knitting of the
puppet's form; Miles was overseeing the work and giving commands. James
was sitting against the wall by the fireplace, reading Marloth.

In the center of the room a group of the children were playing cards.
Normally Miles won in whatever game they played, but his preoccupation
with the puppet allowed the others a shot at being the victor. One by
one, each player folded until the only remaining children were Nivana
and Millamer. They were an evenly matched pair. Nivana was good at
analyzing the nature of the game, keeping track of the cards, devising
formidable strategies, and implementing them with frightening
confidence. Millamer was good at cheating.

George was one of the later ones to fold. He hopped onto a sofa and
waited for the current round to end and the next to begin. As he waited,
he looked around for something to pass the time. His eyes rested on
James, who was still reading Marloth.

"Hey, James! This would be a good time to resume our conversation!"

James looked up from his reading. "What conversation?"

"The ongoing one we've been having."

"I don't remember talking with you."

"You never do, but that's no problem. During the last conversation, you
were talking about how your book is actually a series of dreams, and I
said, 'If all of it is a dream then it has no meaning,' and then it was
time to resume our lessons so we---"

"There's no such thing as *just* a dream."

"There we are! Conversation resumed. So what do you mean from that
statement? How is there no such thing as 'just a dream?'"

"When I have a nightmare I wake up scared. When I have a good dream I
wake up encouraged. What happens in one world affects what happens in
the next."

"Interesting. I agree with you to a point: dreams do have *some* effect
on reality, though it's a small effect at best."

"Different kinds of dreams have different effects. A book is a sort of
dream; they have an even stronger effect on reality than sleeping
dreams."

"I've never thought of a book as a dream before, but I can see the
similarity. And I *have* seen the power books have over reality. Some 
books have turned the course of nations.

"Which brings us back to the question that led to this part of the
conversation: why don't you read other books than Marloth?"

"Because Marloth is more sincere! Most books 
try to be something they're not and act like there isn't a world
beyond them. Marloth is a humble book. It knows it's a
fairytale. It says so on the cover. It knows there is a world beyond
itself."

"But can that not be said of any other book? Take the biology
book I've been reading. All it speaks of is the world beyond itself."

James paused, unsure how to respond.

"Fascinating," said Mr. Tralvorkemen. Both orphans stopped abruptly and
turned toward the headmaster. Mr. Tralvorkemen was no longer reading. He
had set his own book down and was was listening to their conversation
intently. "James' wild intuition meets George's rigorous mind---what
an interesting combination. Don't let me stop you; please continue."

George was willing to resume the discourse, but James did not like
talking about Marloth when he knew Mr. Tralvorkemen was paying
attention. The headmaster had disciplined him in the past for living too
much in his fantasies, and somehow that had been one of the few things
James didn't forget. Once it was clear that James did not wish to speak,
Tralvorkemen said it was no matter and turned to the rest of the
children.

"I just remembered," said Mr. Tralvorkemen. "Tomorrow we will be
receiving a visit from Doctor Hurley. It has been too long since he was
last here."

All the children looked at each other nervously. Every so often the
orphanage would be visited by Doctor Hurley. The doctor was a broad,
husky man with a deep voice and a sharp eye. Though he was a friendly
and talkative gentleman, to the children these visits equated to needles
and ill tasting medicines.

Even though his chief purpose at the orphanage was to examine each child
and ensure their good health, ordinary doctoring was not his normal
practice. He considered himself an inventor and spent most of his time
experimenting with new medical procedures, some of which he tried on the
children. Tralvorkemen was not entirely aware of this.

On this particular visit, when he had finished examining each of the
children and sent them outside to play, he mentioned a need to speak
with Tralvorkemen alone, as they sometimes did, and they adjourned to
the headmaster's study.

"Ah, it's good to be in your study again. The décor, the view of the
city, your excellent selection of books, every bit of it forms a
cohesive whole. Have I told you how much I admire this place?"

Tralvorkemen assured him he had.

"Yes, well, I'd love to have a study like *this* someday. Currently I
have no official location for my work. I am scattered between multiple
practices and none of them see fit to provide me an entire room for my
labors. Instead I am forced to share space with others, most of whom
know nothing of order."

"Perhaps if you focused more on a single field you would have more
resources at your disposal."

"But diversity is my main strength! My knowledge of one science helps me in
the pursuit of another. For example, one of my colleagues is a
psychiatrist who is studying electrical impulses in the brain. But he's
a psychiatrist, not an electrician. As for me, I am both! Thus, he is
continually coming to me for explanations on the nature of electricity,
and I am happy to oblige."

The headmaster said that was all very interesting and then asked the
doctor what subject he had wished to speak about.

"Oh, right," said the doctor. "It's about James. The drug I have been
administering is losing its effect. I don't believe there is a problem
with the drug itself, but that his condition has degraded beyond its
ability."

"And exactly in what way are your drugs 'losing their effect?'"

"The boy's hallucinations have returned. Several of your children told
me that just yesterday they found him conversing with his invisible
amphibian friend. *And* he has resumed addressing that mangy stuffed toy
of theirs as a living person. *And* in my personal questioning of him,
he consistently referred to events within that fairy book of his as
though they had really happened. Were you aware of any of this?"

"I was. They are, however, nothing to be concerned about. James is
simply a child with a very active imagination. He is greatly sensitive
to the metaphysical, and I appreciate that more than he realizes. He
does have a hard time valuing concrete reality, which is a grave
problem, but that is something I am working on. He may be a little
foolish, but I can assure you, he's not mad."

The doctor shook his head. "I'm not saying he's mad. I'm saying he's
willing to be. He desperately wants the stories within that book to be
true. If any chink in his reasoning faculties were ever to develop ... a
hole in logic that would allow him to be completely consumed by his
delusions---he would take it, even if he knew it was a lie."

Mr. Tralvorkemen looked hard at the doctor. "I am not sure I agree with
you. You have always had a peculiar fascination with that boy, and you
have tended to make more assumptions about him than is your custom with
other things. In a similar manner, you tend to throw aside your normal
skepticism whenever your drugs are concerned. If James really is losing
his grasp on reality, how do I know it's not your drugs causing these
symptoms?"

"The medication is definitely not the problem! He was exhibiting that
behavior before I gave him a single dose! And for a time the symptoms
subsided. All of the evidence points to the medicine being
beneficial."

"I'm not sure I fully agree with you, but I will hear you out. Let's say
that James is on the brink of delusion and your drugs are no longer able
to restrain him; what would you recommend I do?"

"Deal with that book! Right now his mind is unable to completely turn
its back on reality, but I think his continued reading of Marloth could
change that. It's feeding his fantasies. I think that book should be
examined and, if it contains even a tenth of what I think it does,
permanently removed from his presence."

"If that book is indeed the line between sanity and madness, then I
would heartily agree with such a course of action, but I will not do so
rashly. I will observe him closely and if his symptoms continue to
degrade, then I will act."

The doctor conceded that to be a reasonable approach. After a little
more conversation, he then asked how Tralvorkemen's business was faring.

"Not good." was the weary reply. "More stock was stolen last week. I was
forced to close another outlet."

"That certainly isn't good! Is your business in jeopardy?"

"Not yet, but it cannot sustain much more of this. I may need to
consider a new direction."

"But that can't be the answer! Whoever is perpetrating these crimes must
be stopped! Do the authorities have any clue who is behind it?"

"No. I do not think there is much they can do."

There was silence for several moments, and then Tralvorkemen said, "Have
you heard of this new toyshop that recently opened its doors?"

"Ah, yes. I heard of the place. Jakob Damond's Toye Shoppe. I hope you
aren't begrudging its arrival; they say it's quite a marvel!"

"Marvelously devious, more like it. Jakob Damond has my children utterly
captivated!"

"Right then, a *little* begrudging. Maybe it wouldn't hurt to give the
children some newer toys?"

"They already have the best I have to offer, yet it's not good enough;
they only want *Jakob Damond's* toys. You speak of drugs losing their
effect? Everything I do is losing its effect! I have never seen the
children so rebellious in unison. No matter how much I instruct and
discipline them, they are completely distracted with no apparent remedy.
I fear they may actually attempt to seek out that toyshop regardless of
all I have said."

The headmaster expressed something between a chuckle and a sigh. "The
grand irony in all of this is, despite everything you have said about
James, he may be the only child in this orphanage who is contented with
what he already has. He clings to his book and looks down on every other
toy. Of all the children he is the most harmless."

"I wouldn't be so sure of that." said the doctor. "Even though James may
not care for this toymaker's merchandise, his interest in that book is
still rooted in discontent. Remember, he wants things to be different!
Radically different. Who knows, James' fascination with this book may be
indirectly fueling the other children's fascination with this Damond
fellow's toyshop. I've heard the man's slogan: 'Where fantasy becomes
reality.' That is the sort of thing James lives for. He may not be
consciously encouraging the children toward discontent, but I think his
book is."

Tralvorkemen sighed. "I will keep what you have said in mind, though I
do not honestly think it will make much difference. I fear circumstances
are already out of my hands."

"Come on, old friend, pull yourself together! I was just airing a few
concerns of mine. Valid concerns, mind you, but all the same, you're
doing an excellent job caring for these orphans. I tend to get a little
over excited when talking about patients, and should have used more
reserve. It sounds like you have more on your plate than ever, and I
forget you've always tended to go about this business as though ... "

" ... as though no matter what I do, this entire world has conspired
against me?"

"Yes, that's what I was talking about."

Tralvorkemen made an attempt at smiling along with Hurley. "Sometimes I
am more convinced than ever that it is."

At this, Hurley started to laugh, and before long Tralvorkemen had
joined him.

* * *

James awkwardly climbed the ladder and pushed open the door to the
attic. He had expected to be greeted by a cloud of dust but instead
found the air relatively clean, as though the door had been used
recently. James did not think much of it and climbed the rest of the way
into the room.

Like most of the rooms in the orphanage, the attic was far larger than
it looked like it ought to be. And like most attics you would find in a
story, it was filled with old furniture and the remains of wooden
objects that had once served some purpose. And cobwebs; there were lots
of cobwebs.

After scanning his surroundings, James' focus gravitated to a mirror
that stood at the far end of the room, just to the right of a small
window. It was a large, old mirror---so old that James wondered if it
could be one of the mirrors in his book, the kind that reflects ages far
beyond the horizon of man's knowledge. But it was quite an ordinary
mirror. All it reflected was the image of an ordinary little girl. It
was the image of Catherine, to be precise, for she was sitting in front
of the mirror intently with her back to the rest of the room.

James was surprised to find the attic anything but empty. His first
thought was to turn around and forget about the whole matter. But then
some ill used part of his mind thought it would be fun to be curious for
once. What was Catherine doing up in the attic, staring at that mirror?
She was so absorbed in whatever it was that she had not noticed James'
entrance. It bears noting that James was in no way a person of details.
To him, his surroundings were a constant blur, so that while some people
need glasses for their eyesight, James would have benefited from glasses
for his general perception, especially when it came to any sort of thing
a girl might find interesting. For example, James was oblivious to
things like hair. At that moment Catherine had her hair pulled up into a
makeshift bun, a style she never wore. Also, James was oblivious to
things like makeup. Whatever it was that Catherine had put on her face,
it was *not* makeup, but it was the closest thing to makeup she could
find, and in a pinch may have actually looked better than not. As for
her posture, she normally carried herself with either her shoulders
slumped, as when she was sad, or with her shoulders loose, as when she
was happy; but at this moment she was working very hard to keep her
shoulders back, her neck straight, and her chin high.

But the most striking feature of her conduct was the way she kept
tilting her head back and forth as though politely looking from one
person to another and was speaking out loud in a manner more firm and
regal then any she had been known to use.

"Now, now," she was saying. "Duke Henry made a very good point and I
think if the rest of you would consider it in its proper context you
would see why the delegation would be prudent ... " And then she would
pause and nod thoughtfully as though paying close attention to several
peoples' observations. "I understand your concerns," she said, "but
realistically we will have to compromise ... "

"Who are you talking to?" asked James, looking over her shoulder.

Catherine shrieked and nearly knocked over the stool she was sitting on.
"What are you doing here!" she hissed, trying to catch her sudden
outburst and keep her voice down. Her powdered face was now quite red.

"Are there people on the other side of that mirror?" asked James, who
had stepped closer to the glass and examining it curiously.

Catherine covered her face in exasperation. "Of course not! I was just
... "

She waited, hoping she could leave it at that, but when she looked up
she found James waiting expectantly. She felt compelled to give a
response.

"Well ... I was just ... practicing."

"Really?" said James, turning back to the mirror. "Practicing what?" He
still didn't completely believe her about the mirror and was trying to
see if he could see a glimpse of some supernatural third person in its
background, or catch the boy and girl inside the mirror doing something
contrary to what the Catherine and James on their side were doing.

"It's none of your business!" said Catherine, and then in a desperate
bid to change the subject, "What are you doing here anyhow?" She had an
accusing tone that made it sound like he was doing something wrong,
which annoyed James because he knew he had as much right to be in the
attic as she did. (In other words, neither of them should have been
there.)

"I'm looking for cloth." he replied, and, after a moment's pause,
realized that that was in fact what he had come to do ... and began
looking about the room to see if any pieces of cloth would leap out at
him.

"Cloth? Why in the world would you be looking for cloth?"

"Brenda sent me. She's patching up Fugue and needs cloth to make him a
new left arm. I think Millamer said 'Look! Fugue can fly!' and it all
went downhill from there."

For anyone who may be wondering, Fugue was not one of the orphans. Fugue
was a cloth animal. Or at least something like that. One day Mr.
Tralvorkemen had brought to the orphanage a box filled with shredded
pieces from a variety of stuffed animals and dolls as a gift for the
children. Other children might have thought such a gift to be silly, but
the orphans eagerly pooled together the best pieces in the box and sewed
them together to form a single creature of cloth: Fugue. Even though
every part of its body from its eyes to its legs were mismatched in
their color, material, and species, it was beloved by all of the orphans
and had become their mascot.

Normally, Catherine would have said something like "Poor Fugue!" but at
the moment she was unusually preoccupied. She was back looking at her
reflection in the mirror, and the more she looked the more discouraged
she became.

"James, do you think I'm pretty?"

James looked over at her in surprise. Ideas like 'pretty' were hardly in
his vocabulary. "I suppose so," he said at last.

"And do you think I'm childish?"

James shrugged. "I don't know exactly what childish is. Do you want to
be?"

"Of course not! People don't like people who are childish! They like
people who are mature and sophisticated and say clever things all the
time!"

James shrugged again. "If you say so." He spotted an old quilt and
pulled it out from behind a hutch. Once he had it out in the open he
began to turn it over to see if some part of it would work as an arm.

A surge of anger rose up in Catherine, but she pushed it back. She
wished James would pay her more attention, but she needed to be a lady
and treat James with respect even if he didn't respect anyone else. And
despite his total lack of social skills, he was one of the closest
things to an ally she had in this place. Perhaps he could help her with
other things weighing her down.

"James, there's something I've been thinking about, and you may be the
only person who would understand. It's about Mr. Tralvorkemen. I know
most of the time he seems mean and unpleasant. He's switched me more
times than I know how to count. But it's almost like he is two different
people. I could swear I have memories of times when he was kind to me.
We had conversations where I felt sure he was sincerely interested in me
as a person. But those memories are so fuzzy ... more like memories of
memories."

"That's nothing special," said James, "I deal with that sort of thing
all the time. My memory is a total fog. You're probably just getting
mixed up between Mr. Tralvorkemen and the headmaster in Marloth."

"No! It's not just me! Some of the other children have told me they have
similar dreamlike memories, though they would never admit it in public."

James thought for a moment, and then shrugged. "Maybe Mr. Tralvorkemen
is a nice person; maybe he isn't. He's not the headmaster from Marloth,
so it doesn't matter either way."

"It matters to me! It matters to the other children!"

"Then maybe you should be talking to them instead of me."

That was it. The dam broke. Catherine stomped her foot in frustration.
"You are so heartless! Don't you care about anything other than that
book? Don't you ever think about the people around you? What we might be
thinking and feeling?"

"I have feelings! Just because I don't go bubbling out every thought
that crosses my mind like you doesn't mean I don't feel anything. I love
Marloth because it makes me feel. It makes me care about things."

"But not about things that are real! You read about people sacrificing
their lives for their friends, but you don't sacrifice anything. You
read about adventures, but you don't even join in the boys' games of
War. You read about heroes rescuing princesses, but I don't see you
rescuing anyone!" By now Catherine was on her feet, poking James in the
chest with her index finger.

"I don't think you really like Marloth! You talk about wishing it were
real, but you would never *really* want that. You would *hate* being in
Marloth! That would mean running around and getting tired and hungry and
hurt! In Marloth you would need to actually become *attached* to people.
To not only risk your life, but your heart as well! Those are all things
that are *very* un-James-like."

James was speechless. He stood there for several moments. Then he
stepped back, gathered the quilt, and left without saying a word.

Catherine watched him go, sat down, and then burst into tears.

* * *

The next day, Catherine found James in one of the many corners he
inhabited, and apologized for her outburst from the previous day. While
she was still hurt by his lack of interest, she was more hurt by the
thought of hurting him.

James received this without a hint of resentment and said he didn't
remember much of the conversation. This was hard for Catherine to hear,
but she said she understood and did her best to continue on with her
day. She was not sure whether or not he had really forgotten, but if he
had, she had the unnerving suspicion that his mind had consciously
blotted the event from his mind, like a white blood cell blotting out a
virus.

* * *

It was not uncommon for Mr. Tralvorkemen to spend much of his
time in his study, but the day following Doctor Hurley's visit was an
unusual one in that Mr. Tralvorkemen spent *all* of his time in his
study, to the point of missing breakfast, lunch, and dinner. The
children were accustomed to preparing the meals for themselves, but not
to that degree, and it felt surreal to go through the entire day
attending to themselves without the headmaster's supervision. They did
not mind it by any means, but at the same time there was a growing
apprehension amongst their ranks as to what this absence could mean.

As usual, the children spent their evening gathered in the living room.
Millamer eagerly volunteered himself to build the fire and before long a
fire was raging three times larger than anything Mr. Tralvorkemen would
have allowed. While there was some amount of games and similar
activities, the children utilized their current freedom to talk about
the inexhaustibly fascinating subject of Jakob Damond's Toye Shoppe.

"Hey, where's James?" asked George. "I haven't seen him since dinner."

"Oh, he somehow managed to lose his book." said Brenda. "He's been
looking all over for it."

If you were to have looked on at the orphanage that night, you would
have first noticed that all of the rooms were very dark except for three
lights. One of the lights was large and flickering, and illuminated a
room at the bottom floor. That was the living room. On the third floor,
an old brass lamp illuminated one of the smaller rooms. That was the
headmaster's study. Then there was the light of a frail candle. That
light was moving frantically from room to room and floor to floor.

If you were to have watched the orphanage for a long enough time, you
would have eventually seen a fourth light, also from a candle, leaving
the large, firelit room and traveling upward and along through winding
stairs and hallways until its light met up and merged with the other
candle.

"James, it's too late to look for Marloth now." said Catherine. "Why
don't you come downstairs and join the rest of us? You can look for
Marloth tomorrow when it will be easier to find."

"Just give me a few more minutes. I'm sure I'll come across it any
moment now."

"Miles said you've been searching for hours! You're not going to find it
'any moment now'*.* Here, if you come with me right now, I'll help you
look for it tomorrow. I'm sure some of the others will be glad to help
as well."

"They won't need to. I'm going to find it any moment. I can feel it."

"Ugh!" Catherine groaned. Taking advantage of James' preoccupation, she
suddenly leaned forward, blew out his candle, and leapt back. James
turned to find himself in a very dark room with the only source of light
being the candle Catherine was holding several feet away.

"Give me that candle!" James growled.

"If you want the candle, follow me!" said Catherine. James lunged at it,
but Catherine gracefully dodged through the doorway and down the hall.

"Come back here!" James shouted, charging after her. From outside the
orphanage, you would have seen a single frail light hurrying about from
room to hallway, hallway to room, gradually making its way downward
until it merged with the large light of the living room. You also might
have noticed that by then the living room was the only lit room in the
house.

Laughing and gasping for breath, Catherine rushed into the living room
with James on her heels. The laughter immediately ceased. In the center
of the room, outlined by the raging fire, stood Tralvorkemen. In his
hand he held James' prized possession: Marloth.

The other children were very still, and very quiet. They hardly even
noticed Catherine and James' entrance. All eyes were on Mr.
Tralvorkemen.

"How many of you have heard of the headmaster in this book?" This was
said by Mr. Tralvorkemen. He waited for a response, but none of the
children spoke a word. "This book tells of a headmaster," he went on.
"Have all of you heard its account?"

The silence continued. He did not appear to be angry, but he definitely
wasn't happy. He seemed as though all the energy had been wrung out of
him and then suddenly shot back into him with painful inspiration. The
children had never seen him so agitated.

Miles looked like he was preparing a clever answer when Catherine said,
still trying to catch her breath, "I think we all have at one time or
another."

Mr. Tralvorkemen slowly nodded. "And can anyone tell me what sort of a
person this headmaster is? What are his qualities?"

More hesitation. "He's a nice fellow?" hazarded one of the children.

Mr. Tralvorkemen nodded. "What else?"

"He doesn't spank his children!" said Miles.

"No. That is incorrect. Clearly you have not attended to your studies of
fairytales. This headmaster *does* spank his children. He employs many
forms of discipline."

"But it always pains him to do it!" said Catherine. "He cares deeply for
his children, even when he is disciplining them. Even though it hurts so
much, he does it for their own good!"

Tralvorkemen turned toward her and smiled, although it was not a happy
smile. "Very good! In fact, everything he does is for other people. He
is utterly selfless! Everything he does is always exactly the right
thing a person should do. He never makes a mistake!"

He began to move around the room, facing each child in turn. "Wouldn't
you want a headmaster like that?" he asked. Several hesitant nods.
"Someone who would always put you before himself?" More nods. "Someone
who would tell you fantastic stories of faraway places?" The nodding
grew more enthusiastic. "Someone so fun and wonderful that you wouldn't
even care about magical toys?"

All nods abruptly stopped. Tralvorkemen looked about him with morbid
satisfaction. "Oh, but of course not! You're not content with me; you
still want magical toys! And why is that?"

As he spoke his pitch and condescension had risen until it reached a
crescendo that now hung in the air atop his rhetorical pause. But it did
not rest there long before it came crashing down and landed in their
midst with a crash.

"Because I'm not that man!" he shouted. All of the children jumped back
in surprise. The wake of his outburst hardly settled before he charged
onward at full speed. Gone were the dark humor and condescension. Now
his fury was unleashed.

"I decided to examine this book because I suspected that it had been
encouraging your desires for that toyshop. I wish it had! For now I find
myself fighting discontent not from one direction, but two! On one side
I have a toymaker who would accuse me of being too good, and on the
other, an imaginary headmaster who would accuse me of not being good
enough! This toyshop would have me be something my conscience cannot
allow, while this book would have me be something nature cannot allow! I
am human! I am not perfect! I am flawed and the first to admit it! But
through this book you expect of me a state I cannot attain!"

He paused to regain his breath. He slumped into his armchair near the
middle of the room. Every eye of every orphan remained fixed on him.

"I can't do magic!" he moaned. "I can't dazzle your senses and capture
your minds! But this Toymaker can! I can't compete with that! I can't
compete with magical toys! Nor can I compete with a perfect headmaster
that is solely fictitious!"

Timidly, Catherine approached him and put one of her small hands on his
arm. "You have done so much for us!" she said hardly above a whisper.
"You don't need to compete with anyone!" For a brief moment, a genuine
smile crossed the headmaster's face. "Catherine," said he, "I hope you
never lose your innocent compassion."

Then the gloom returned to his face. "But fate is not that simple. Nor
kind." He rose from his chair. Most of the anger had left him. Now was
not the condescending Tralvorkemen, nor the vengeful Tralvorkemen, this
was the more familiar battered Tralvorkemen, the rational intellect
curiously pondering its own imminent doom. Almost casually, he turned to
James and said "I wonder if you understand even a tenth of what this
book says. I've spent all day studying it and I have hardly pierced its
surface. Have you even read all of it?"

James thought for a moment and then shook his head.

"I figured that was the case. You don't seem frightened enough to have
read the whole of it. Then again, I doubt you understand what little
you've already read. Do you have any idea what this book really says?
What it really means? If this book is true then I am a lie. This book I
hold in my hand claims that the world we inhabit is naught but an
illusion! And not simply an illusion, but an evil one! To this book I am
not simply a lie, but a perversion; a malicious perversion of your
perfect headmaster!" At this he put his hand to his head as though his
brains were aching. "This is absurd! How can I even be quoting such
rubbish! This book is twisting my mind! I can't imagine what it has done
to yours ... " (That last part he addressed to James.) He pounded his
fist atop the book in an attempt to regain his substance. "I ... am ...
*real!*" he shouted. "This book ... is ... *fantasy!* It is the lie, not
me!"

Once again his voice had risen to a crescendo, and once again both voice
and man slumped into his armchair. He sat there some time, grimly
cogitating. The children were too frightened and confused to stir an
inch. The only motion in the room was the flickering of the fire, which
cast the brooding figure of Mr. Tralvorkemen in solid black. Finally he
spoke.

"One thing is certain. The book must be destroyed."

Instantly all of the nerves in James' body snapped into tension so
violently he felt he would explode.

"What!" he blurted. "You can't do that!"

Mr. Tralvorkemen looked as though he were trying very hard to contain
his temper. "Have you heard nothing of what I said? The book must go!"

"But I need it!

"What you need is submission! Need I remind you, little boy, that if it
were not for me you would still be in that horrid asylum, if not dead?
Or that this is my house, and you are my charge? It is only by mercy
that I am not punishing you this instant! If you display any more
defiance you will experience discipline like never before."

"You can beat me and starve me and lock me up and beat me some more, but
I must have Marloth!"

Tralvorkemen's temper finally snapped. "So be it! If you're so obsessed
with the accursed book, fetch it!"

With that, he turned and hurled it into the fire.

"*NO!*" James screamed, and before the book had even landed, he jumped
into the fire after it.

"The devil! You're possessed!" the Headmaster shouted. Time seemed to
freeze as everyone watched in horror as James struggled to reach the
book, for the fireplace was quite large and very deep. The headmaster
was so stunned that it took him a moment to gather his wits and pull the
boy out of the fire.

"No! My book!" James shrieked. He flailed around as he was torn from the
furnace, sending glittering embers around the room.

"Get me Doctor Hurley!" Mr. Tralvorkemen ordered Miles, who straightaway
ran out of the orphanage and climbed over the wall. Tearing a blanket
from under one of the children, Mr. Tralvorkemen quickly put out James'
burning clothes.

"Everyone out!" he commanded. As all of the children piled out of the
room, he left James on the floor to get some water from the kitchen.

All alone, James quivered on the floor and watched through blurry eyes
as Marloth turned from embers to ash. He did not feel the pain of his
burnt flesh. He did not feel the tears streaming down his face. All he
felt was emptiness.

* * *

Doctor Hurley was quickly brought to the orphanage and James was ushered
to a facility where he was treated for his burns. He was transferred to
the sick room of the orphanage the next day, bandaged like a mummy.
There he spent the next several weeks in fitful sleep.

"Do you think he will recover?" Mr. Tralvorkemen asked the doctor.

"He should pull through. There's nothing fatal. He'll have a number of
scars, but he won't look disfigured. *Striking* ... that's probably the
word I'd choose."

Mr. Tralvorkemen walked over to the bed and watched the boy. James was
tossing and turning in agony. All the while, he was muttering and
whispering to himself about zombies and evil toys.

Suddenly, he stopped and opened his eyes. It took him a while for his
eyes to fully open and adjust to his surroundings. Then, he spotted
Tralvorkemen.

"I hate you!" he shouted hoarsely.

The headmaster stood there motionless.

"I hate you!" James repeated, and then went into convulsions.

The doctor rushed to the boys' side and began to inject him with
medicine.

"This behavior has nothing to do with any physical damage," he said.
"Whatever he's going through is in his mind."

Before long, the drugs took their effect and James drifted back into
deep sleep.

"We'd best leave him alone." said the doctor.

Mr. Tralvorkemen nodded and the two men walked out of the room.

"Why did you have to go and destroy it?" said the doctor, once they were
in the hall. "There were less violent ways to detach the boy from the
book, and I would have liked very much to have seen what was inside it."

"I am glad you didn't."

"What do you mean? Are you trying to hide something from me? You know
that if I am to fully help James, I will need every scrap of information
about this whole Marloth business."

"James? Honestly, I don't think there is much more you can do for him.
As long as I can remember things have never felt quite right, and I'm
starting to realize why. No, I think things are going to get much worse
and there is nothing you can do about it."

"Your paranoia is reaching a whole new depth! Does everyone who reads
that book go mad?"

"I'm leaning toward the affirmative."

"I didn't mean for you to answer that!"

Tralvorkemen brushed the comment aside. "I was simply thinking how I've
been going about life trying to fill in the pieces of a puzzle, and that
book provided many possible pieces, and when I perceived the puzzle near
completion I suddenly found myself wishing I had not put any pieces
together at all."

"For someone who just burned the foul thing, you certainly are
fascinated with it!"

"I know. It haunts me from its grave, and for more reasons than one."

The doctor looked at Tralvorkemen in a very peculiar way. "Next time I
visit," he said, "I may bring a little something for you to take as
well."

"As to that, the next time you visit, and possibly many visits after
that, you will be conducting your business through a---hold on ... what
was her name ... a Miss Perry, I believe, or something like that.
Whatever her name, she will be overseeing the care of the children until
I return. I have no idea how long I will be gone."

"And where ever will you be?"

"Abroad. On business."

"Business? I would not have expected you to have a reason to travel for
several more months."

"Correct. This business is not of my normal kind."

"Well, are you going to at least tell me where you are going?"

"No, it doesn't look like I am."

"Why the sudden mystery? What end are you pursuing in all of this?"

"If you must know, from here on I have but one object in mind: to find
out who wrote that book."

* * *

No one was more distressed by the fireplace incident than Catherine. The
other children did not sympathize with her. Before, they had mocked her
devotion to Tralvorkemen, now they hated her for it. She had never felt
so separated from everyone else. She no longer tried to fit in. If the
children were playing outside, she would be inside, and if the children
were playing inside, she would be outside.

One morning Catherine was in the yard by herself when who should appear
but the monkey, looking down at her from the top of the wall like some
furry gargoyle.

At first Catherine tried to ignore the monkey, for she was conflicted
about the creature. On one hand, she felt that it was at least partially
responsible for setting in motion all of the mischief that had befallen
the orphanage. But on the other hand, it seemed so intelligent and was
so remarkable in both apparel and manner, she felt rude ignoring it.

She turned to face the animal and was about to speak when she spotted an
envelope lying at her feet. She looked up at the monkey and back down at
the envelope. The creature did not appear to have moved from its perch
on the wall.

Hesitantly, she reached down and took the envelope. She could not read
as well as James, but she could read just well enough to see that it was
addressed to her. She looked up at the monkey in surprise, but gained no
information from the monkey's steady smile. Deciding that there was no
mistaking the monkey's intention, she opened the envelope and took from
it a single piece of paper on which was written the following:

> Why is your heart so sad, little girl?
>
> Jakob Damond
>

She looked up in puzzlement. "How am I to respond to such a letter?" she
asked, looking at the monkey but addressing no one in particular. "I can
barely write, and Mr. Tralvorkemen would never allow me to send a letter
to Jakob Damond of all people!"

She thought about it more and shook her head in frustration. "I don't
even know why I'm sad. I don't know what to think anymore! Well, that's
not entirely true. I guess part of what irks me is that all these years
I defended Mr. Tralvorkemen and now he's gone and thrown Marloth into
the fire! It wasn't only James' favorite book, it was mine too! And even
though it was James who decided to jump into the fire, I can't help
feeling like that was Mr. Tralvorkemen's fault as well! And now the
others treat me worse than ever! They accuse me of thinking they're not
good enough for me when all I want is to be their friend!"

By then Catherine had worked herself into quite a frazzled state and
collapsed to the ground in a pitiful heap. But she was not there long
before she felt an envelope gently land on her lap. She looked up in
surprise to see the monkey maintaining its steady post on the wall as
though nothing had happened. Turning over the envelope, she saw that it
was addressed to her just as the one before it. Brimming with curiosity,
she quickly tore it open and examined the paper inside. This one had far
more words than the previous paper, and it took her much longer to make
any sense of it. The letter went something like this:

> I know how you must feel. I too am frequently misunderstood. So often I
> try to help people and in return they slander me. All I want to do is
> make the world a better place.
>
> If you came to my toyshop I could solve all your problems. I have toys
> that would cause your friends to love you and Mr. Tralvorkemen to
> respect you. Right now you are a child, and will be for ever so long,
> but I could make you a Lady right now, so that you would have all the
> wisdom, admiration, and pleasures that adults experience. Unfortunately,
> I have heard that your headmaster has forbidden you from visiting any
> toyshop, so I guess there is nothing I can do for you.
>
> Jakob Damond
>

She did not know what all the words meant, but she understood enough to
see that the headmaster's commands were in question. Without thinking,
she automatically looked up and said "No, not any toyshop! Just yours.
He said if we went to your toyshop he would throw us out of the
orphanage! I know that must sound a little severe, but I'm sure he has
good reason for it."

She had hardly finished saying this when the monkey lightly dropped down
from the wall, reached into the bag slung over its shoulder, and handed
Catherine yet another letter. Catherine looked and behold, like the ones
before it, this letter was also addressed to her.

> Ah, I think I understand what is going on. There are many people who are
> envious of my magical goods, and it sounds like your headmaster has
> heard some of the lies these people spread to spite me. I fear your
> headmaster is sadly misinformed as to my character. I want to help him
> by helping you.
>
> The fact of the matter is that your headmaster has never actually seen
> my toys. If you were to acquire one of them and bring it back to the
> orphanage, he would be so amazed by it and so enraptured by you through
> its influence that he would never even think about punishing you.
>
> Jakob Damond

Along with the letter there was another piece of paper in the envelope.
A colorful one. She took it out and found herself staring at a second
advertisement to Jakob Damond's Toye Shoppe. This advertisement had
pictures and descriptions of even more wonderful toys than the first
one.

"These toys are so amazing!" she gasped. "But I don't know if I could do
the things you are asking of me. I don't know what to think. What you
say is so different from what Mr. Tralvorkemen has said!" By now she was
not sure who she was addressing, but she didn't really care; she was
wholly caught up in the conversation. She did not think anything of it
when the monkey once more dropped down and handed her another letter.
She didn't even bother checking to see who it was addressed to before
opening it.

> Believe me, the headmaster and I both have your best interest at heart.
> I am not forcing you to do anything. Whether or not you accept my offer
> is the difference between everyone being miserable, and everyone being
> happy. The choice is yours.
>
> Jakob Damond

When Catherine had finished reading the letter and looked up, the monkey
was gone. She stood there for some time after that, staring at the pile
of envelopes and letters at her feet. Part of her was frightened at the
idea of disobeying the headmaster and venturing beyond the confines of
the orphanage, but she found that part of her becoming fainter. She felt
alive in a way she had never experienced before; ready to take chances
she would have never considered. All her life she had done everything
she had been told to do and all it had brought her was disappointment.

"It's just like the toymaker said! All I've done is try to be kind to
people and in return they've just walked all over me. I'm tired of being
made fun of! I'm tired of being manipulated! And I'm not going to take
it anymore."

She reached down, gathered up the papers, and looked toward the
orphanage.

"I'm tired of being the good girl."

* * *

Over time, the burns healed, leaving only faint scars over James' face
and arms, but his soul did not fare so well. He withdrew even more from
the other children, and no longer did he have his book to turn to.
Instead, he spent his time sitting alone in the sick room, staring
darkly into space. The children frequently visited him and tried to
include him in their games, but to no avail. He was consumed.

One day, there was a knock at the infirmary door. Before James could say
"Go away!" the door opened and in stepped Catherine.

"Go away!" said James.

"I'm doing fine, thank you." said Catherine. "How are you today?"

James didn't respond. Catherine pulled up a chair and sat down beside
the bed.

"I'm sorry about what happened to Marloth. I can't imagine how hard it
must be for you not to have it anymore." She paused to give James an
opportunity to comment but he didn't say anything.

"Anyhow," she continued, "I've been trying to come up with a way for you
to get another copy of Marloth."

"There are no other copies of Marloth! It was one of a kind!"

"You don't know that! Marloth did not look like a handwritten book; I
think it was published. For all you know there could be hundreds of
copies throughout the world."

An ember of hope flickered across James' countenance, but he wasn't
ready to leave his gloom. "Even if that were true, how could I ever find
such a book?"

"Well ... we *could* start by looking in Jakob Damond's Toye Shoppe ...
"

The irony of such a suggestion coming from Catherine was completely lost
on James. "Marloth wasn't a toy; it was a book."

"Didn't you pay any attention to that advertisement? The toyshop sells
books! Magical ones! Books of fantasy even!"

James sat up. "Seriously?"

Catherine reached into her pocket, took out the advertisement she had
received from the monkey, and laid it out before James. "If you don't
believe me then just look at this."

James was amazed. "I thought Tralvorkemen burned this!" he said.

"This is another one." said Catherine. "I found it in the yard."

James scanned the paper and sure enough, there were several fairytale
books.

"It doesn't mention Marloth." he said.

"But you do agree that it could be there, don't you?"

"It looks possible ... "

"So would you like to go?"

James thought for several moments. "Yes. I would."

"Terrific!" Catherine beamed, and then paused. "Now that just leaves one
other issue: I don't know how to get there. I'm not good with maps, or
finding places, and I wouldn't be good at finding a way to sneak out of
the orphanage and back. But you're really smart; I was hoping you could
find a way ... "

"I can do it." said James.

"Really? That *is* good news! When do you think we could go?"

"I don't know. I'll need some time to think ... and gather information.
I'll let you know when everything is ready."

* * *

They didn't have to wait long. The next day Mr. Tralvorkemen set out on
a mysterious business trip, leaving the children under the care of a
nanny. While she was just as watchful and conservative as Mr.
Tralvorkemen, she was not as bright, and near the end of the day James
told Catherine that he had worked everything out and they would be
visiting the toyshop that night. Catherine was thrilled.

Night came, and after everyone had gone to bed, James slipped on his
clothes and pocketed the bag which contained the few shillings he
possessed. Before he left the room, tied his sheets together and rolled
them into a ball. With the bundle tucked under his arm, he carefully
crept to the girls' bedroom, where Catherine was waiting outside.
Without saying a word, they proceeded downstairs.

They found the nanny in the living room, fast asleep. They tiptoed past
her, and to the back door.

"Wait a minute," said Catherine. "What about the dog?"

"I took care of it." said James.

With much care, they slipped outside and closed the door behind them.
James locked the door with a key he had procured from the nanny.

"You have the keys?" Catherine whispered. "That means you can unlock the
gate!"

"I considered that, but the gate makes too much noise."

"Then how are we going to get over the wall?"

"That's what the sheet is for." said James.

In explanation, he unrolled the sheets, grabbed a corner in each hand,
and tossed the middle over the spade-shaped spikes that lined the top of
the wall.

"Here, you can climb up using the sheet. I'll help push you up."

As it turned out, Catherine was far more athletic than James, and needed
less help then he did climbing up. Once they were both sitting on top of
the wall, James looped the sheet over the outer side of the wall, and
each of them lowered themselves into the alley below. Leaving the sheet
hanging for their return, they set off down the street in the direction
of the toyshop.

As they walked along the streets, they were surprised at how many people
were out and about after dark, and at how many lights were still lit.
However, they did not see any children wandering about unattended, and
some of the grownups were eyeing them curiously.

"Are you sure we are going the right way?" Catherine asked him.

"Yes." said James. He had the advertisement with him, which contained
the toyshop's address, and he had a map of the city he had acquired from
Mr. Tralvorkemen's study.

It wasn't long before they turned a corner and saw the sign which said,
"Jakob Damond's Toye Shoppe." Above this crouched a statue of a monkey
with a cymbal in each hand. It was posed in such a way that it was
looking directly at them as they passed underneath it and into the shop.

The children gasped in awe as they beheld the splendor before them. The
inside of the shop was overflowing with more toys than they could have
ever imagined. There were tables and counters stacked with toys. Toys
were neatly piled along the floor, forming narrow paths that wound
through the store. From the ceiling were hung many more toys, all of
which were slowly rotating above their heads. Everywhere they turned
there were colored lights glittering like fairies. The noise and bustle
from the city outside failed to penetrate the little world they had
entered. All was quiet and peaceful. They could see no other people in
the store.

"Why, it's just like Christmas!" said Catherine.

"Like no Christmas I've ever had." said James.

"Look at this!" said Catherine, pointing at a teddy bear which slowly
turned its head back and forth.

"I don't know ... " said James. "These toys almost seem alive. It's as
if they were watching us."

"And so what if they were alive? Just think how much fun it would be to
play with toys that could play with you! I could have a real tea party
with my dolls, and they'd carry on conversations with me!" She lifted
the bear off of the table and set it on the ground. Immediately it stood
up and began to blindly walk around.

"I don't see any books." said James.

"Don't worry, I'm sure they're around here somewhere."

James felt something hit his ankle. Looking behind him, he found a shiny
red fire truck the size of a shoebox which had driven up and was raising
its ladder. At the end of the ladder was a toy little man holding a
little hose. James bent down and peered into the nozzle of the hose. The
craft was so detailed it almost looked real!

"This is so fascinating!" Catherine laughed. Looking around the corner,
she spotted a giant jack-in-the-box.

"James, come quick!" she called. James who had been examining a wheel
which was perpetually rolling along the floor, wall, and ceiling, went
over to see. "I wonder what could be in it?" she said.

"Jack, I suppose. But seriously, I don't think we're supposed to be
messing with all this stuff. What if someone finds us? Please don't open
it!"

"What are you talking about? It's *meant* to be opened!" Grabbing the
crank, she tried to rotate it, but it wouldn't budge.

"Could you give me a hand?" she asked.

"If it was meant to be opened, I think they would have made it easier to
turn." said James.

"Come on!"

James begrudgingly took hold of the crank. With one forceful tug, they
managed to yank it free, throwing them onto their backs. The crank
continued to make several rotations, all the while playing a cute yet
slightly off-key tune. Suddenly, the top burst open, and a man shot into
the air, nearly landing on top of them.

"Welcome to Jakob Damond's Toye Shoppe!" said the man. "Within these
walls you will find everything you could ever desire! I guarantee that I
can make your wildest fantasies come true!"

He reached into his coat pocket and revealed a long slender whistle,
upon which he gave a sharp blow. Instantly, the room came to life. Every
toy began to move. Dolls danced. Trains zigzagged across the store along
winding tracks. Board games began enacting battles. Fountains of water
shot into the air, reflecting the multicolored light.

"This place is too incredible! I must be dreaming!" Catherine exclaimed.

"So what is it you desire?" the toymaker asked, turning back to the
children.

"Oh, yes. We're here to find a book for James."

"A book? Well you're in luck, for I happen to have a wide assortment of
rare books in stock!" Follow me toward the back of the store!" And so
they set out deeper into the toyshop. As they went, the toy maker
maintained the conversation.

"So where are you from?" He asked.

"Oh, no place of much consequence. A small orphanage. That's all"

"Dear, dear! Do you mean to say then, that you have both lost your
parents?"

"I suppose so," said Catherine. "Though I don't think about that much.
Parents are things that other people in other places have. In a way, I
guess Mr. Tralvorkemen has always been our parent."

At the mention of the headmaster, a brief shadow fell over the toy
maker's countenance, and Catherine noticed it.

"Do you know him?" said Catherine. "Do you know Mr. Tralvorkemen? You
remind me something of him in your stature and dress."

The toymaker turned on her and for a brief second anger burned within
his eyes. "I am nothing like Edward Tralvorkemen! He lives in a
cold, lifeless world filled with rules and self-induced labor. He thinks
he is better and wiser than everyone else, which is farthest from the
truth. In short, he is a miserable man who scorns all forms of fun."

Then his smile returned. "But as for me, I am the father of
fun!"

Catherine was puzzled. That sounded very different from what he had said
in his letters to her. She was about to question him about that
discrepancy but she couldn't think of any way she could politely bring
it up and decided to overlook it.

The man gestured and one of the rows of toys slid aside to reveal a
massive bookcase. "I have every great fairytale and fantasy ever
written!"

"Do you have Marloth?" James blurted out.

The toymaker halted.

"What was that?" he asked.

"*Marloth.*"

"No, I'm afraid I've never heard of that one. What sort of book is it?"

"It's a fairytale book full of villains and heroes! And adventures! Many
of them!"

Mr. Damond scratched his chin thoughtfully. "Hmm. I'm not certain, but I
think I may have just what you're looking for. Follow me!"

Mr. Damond led them past the bookshelves and through the maze of toys.
The toyshop went far deeper than they had imagined. When he stopped,
they had reached a darker corner of the shop where there was a thick
glass case with several expensive looking objects behind it. The
toymaker took a key from his waistcoat pocket and unlocked the case.
After perusing it for some time, he pulled forth a shiny, leather bound
book and carefully handed it to James.

"Here it is! This is one of my most valuable pieces of merchandise! With
this, your dreams can *really* come true!"

James opened the book and flipped through the pages carefully. It did
not take him long before he had read the entire book.

"Is this some kind of joke? All of the pages are blank!" he exclaimed.

"And why shouldn't they be? If the pages were already filled with words,
there would be little room for you to write your own!"

"Me?"

"Yes, you! Is there anyone who could write a more perfect book for you
than you? And the stories you write here will not be mere fantasies,
they will be *real!*"

James was not thrilled about the idea of purchasing a blank collection
of paper, but Mr. Damond seemed to know things few other
people knew about.

"If it's all right sir, I'd like to consider this for a while."

"A wise call! We'll leave you to think things over." Taking Catherine's
hand, he led her back toward the front of the store.

"Now, my dear, what sort of wonder do you wish to buy?"

"I fear that I shan't be able to decide! There are so many marvelous
things here; I wish I could have them all!" Then her shoulders slumped
as reality set in. "But I have very little money to spend!"

"Don't fret! I'm positive we can find just the right item for you,
and a means for you to purchase it.
Tell me, what are your interests? What do you aspire to do with your
life?"

Catherine pondered this for a moment and then said "There is one dream
of mine, but it's rather silly."

"Come now! Even silly dreams are worth making real!"

Catherine blushed and dug her foot into the floor. "Well, when I grow
up, I want to be a queen!"

"There's nothing silly about that! You're already a princess, where else
can you go?"

Catherine beamed.

"Though, I must admit," Jakob Damond continued, "becoming a queen can be
a tricky business. It usually helps to marry a prince. But you know
you're a queen when everyone says you're a queen; that's what really
matters. So I think I know just what you need ... "

After digging through the toys, he unearthed an elaborate golden box. He
carefully raised the lid, revealing a plush velvet interior. Inside
rested a slender diadem. As Mr. Damond lifted it from the box, it
appeared to glimmer with its own light. The gems which encrusted the
front seemed to reflect the histories of kings and queens within their
depths. With a courtly air, the toymaker solemnly placed it upon
Catherine's head.

"I'm sorry," said James as he walked up to them still examining the
book. "I just don't think that---"

He halted abruptly as his eyes fell upon Catherine. She looked ...
different. She seemed more mature. More graceful. And possibly even ...
alluring?

"It's wonderful! Catherine squealed with joy as she looked in a nearby
mirror. "Absolutely wonderful!"

James shook his head violently and tried to think of something else.
Wow. It was amazing how apparel can alter people.

"So you'll buy it?" asked Mr. Damond.

"I couldn't bear not to!"

"And how are you faring?" he asked James. "Have you found what you're
looking for?"

James didn't say anything. His mind was spinning with a million
different thoughts, all of them conflicting with each other.

"You like the book, don't you?"

"Yes. Yes, I like it very much. It's just that---well ... "

"I'm sure you'll love it, James!" Catherine said. "What if there are no
more copies of Marloth? Could there be anything better than a book of
your own creation? You *are* very clever!"

James looked at Catherine. He was starting to like the crown.

"I'll buy it!" he said.

"Splendid!" The toymaker performed some quick calculations and told them
the combined cost of the two items.

Both James and Catherine were terribly disheartened. James explained to
the toymaker that they did not have anywhere near that much money. They
were about to turn toward the door when the toymaker beseeched them to
wait.

"Hold on! There's still hope! I have already grown attached to the both
of you. I normally don't do this, but I'm feeling especially generous
tonight and want to offer you a special deal. How about I give them to
you for free?"

"For free?" said James. "Are you serious?"

"We wouldn't have to give you a single coin?" Catherine asked.

"That is correct! Just follow me to my desk!"

He shoved several toys aside and climbed behind the counter. After
digging about in various drawers, he pulled out two official looking
documents and laid them out before the children.

"All you have to do is sign on the dotted line and then the toys are
yours!" he said, setting a pen beside the documents.

Catherine turned to James. "What do the documents say?" she asked.

James examined the paper. He was horrified to discover that even though
he knew many of the words, he couldn't make head or tail of it. Reading
was his expertise, yet he had never seen words so elaborately twisted
together.

"It just says that the toys are ours." he told her.

"That's all?" said Catherine. "It has a lot of words just to say that."

"It also mentions that I am not responsible for anything you might
do to yourselves or others with the toys you are receiving." Mr. Damond added
helpfully.

"Oh, that makes sense." said Catherine. She picked up the pen and wrote
out her name on the paper in front of her. She handed the pen to James,
who likewise signed. Strange, even though the pen was clearly filled
with black ink, the ink came out crimson when used on the document. The
toymaker took the documents and put them in a book of contracts.

"Well there you are!" said Mr. Damond. "The toys are yours! And here,
James, you can have this pen! Now I assume it's well past your bedtimes,
so you'd best be on your way."

"Thank you ever so much!" said Catherine.

"Yes, thank you." said James

"My pleasure!" said the toymaker, and then, just as the children were
stepping outside, "Oh, and James, I wasn't exaggerating about that book.
Be careful what you write."

As the children stepped into the street, the door closed behind them and
the toyshop suddenly dimmed. Now the city was far more quiet than it had
been. Only an occasional person walked by, staring at them
disconcertingly.

"I don't like this." said Catherine. "We are just children and who knows
what sorts of people could be out at this time of night."

"I'll protect you." said James.

"Oh, *sure*. I am more fit than you are! All you do is sit and read."

"Whatever the case," said James, trying to ignore that, "we had best
stay out of sight as much as possible."

James led the way through the twisting alleys, doing their best to stay
within the shadows.

"Don't tell the others about this." said James as they navigated through
the city.

"Why not? You don't think they'd tell Mr. Tralvorkemen, do you?"

"They might, but that's not my main concern. They'd probably be
jealous."

"And why shouldn't they be? They deserve nice toys too. We aren't any
better than they are."

"It's not a matter of who's better or more deserving. They don't have
any excuses to sneak out in the dead of night and buy toys."

"*Oh?* And what's *your* excuse?"

"I'm mad."

"You're not mad. You're just eccentric. I like you that way."

"I'm mad. I know I am. And I love it like a drug."

"Stop talking like that! You're unnerving me!"

"I hate reality." James continued. "It's all wrong. Terribly wrong."

"Well there's nothing you can do about it." said Catherine.

"Yes, there is. I've been thinking about this book and the more I think,
the more I like it. When we get home, I'm going to write in it. I'm
going to write a new Marloth. But this Marloth will be *mine.* And it
will get back at all of the Tralvorkemens and street children and
doctors and everyone else who's screwed up my life. They sit there
watching me and analyzing me and trying to fit me into neat little boxes
and label my problems and then write out nifty drugs for me. Okay, the
drugs are sort of fun, but that's not the point. I'm going to create a
book like they've never seen before! They want to know what makes me
tick? Well, they're going to find out!"

Catherine was very quiet. He was starting to scare her. "Welcome to My
World." said James.

<img class="centered-image-scene-break" style="width: 50%;" src="file://src/assets/images/fairytale/book.png" alt=""/>

The children climbed back over the wall and into the orphanage without
incident. They parted in the hallway between the bedrooms, where
Catherine slipped into the girls' bedroom as quietly as possible. James,
however, had no desire to go to bed. Slowly, he turned about and made
his way for Mr. Tralvorkemen's study. It was more cluttered than usual.
At the far end was a window through which faint moonlight glided inward,
casting a bluish hue over the room. Beneath the window and near the
center of the room there was a desk. Even though the desk was loaded
with volumes of papers and writing equipment, all of this was somehow
organized with such precision that it looked more like a small city had
been built upon the desk than a mess of stationary.

James circled the desk and climbed up onto Mr. Tralvorkemen's chair. He
carefully lit the lamp that hid amidst the papers. After several
attempts, the wick finally burst into flame and illuminated the room
with its golden glow. After pushing aside enough papers to make a little
valley, he was able to lay out his new book upon the desk and gather his
thoughts to write.

He could picture Mr. Tralvorkemen standing beside him with a shallow
smile creeping over his face. Mr. Tralvorkemen was saying, "So the
little child is going to write now, is he? I wonder what silly things
he'll write? Whatever it is, I'll probably have to throw it into the
fire too."

"Oh, *you will!*" said James. Taking the pen in hand, he wrote down the
first thing that came to his mind. Below is a much embellished version
of what he penned:

> Somewhere in the myriad of dimensions, there rose a hill. It had once
> been a cemetery. It even looked like a cemetery. It had all the right
> tombstones and that creepy atmosphere clinging to it that just reeks of
> foreboding. But it was no longer a cemetery, for it had no bodies, and
> cemeteries always have bodies.
>
> On top of the hill stood the church. Well, what had once been a church.
> So many pilings and attachments had been hammered into it that it was
> next to impossible to distinguish any of the original walls. From inside
> the building came the hum and hammer of machinery. The eccentric
> inventor Otto Marecchian had turned the church into a factory. Now,
> instead of praying to God, he was playing God. And loving it.
>
> For the product of his factory was nothing short of reanimated 
> dead persons. He had dredged the grounds of all its occupants and, with science
> and black magic, brought them to life. The best thing about his system
> was that once he it was rolling, the zombies had been given control of
> the machinery, allowing him to tinker with other projects. The dead were
> reproducing.

Suddenly, James was awoken from his writing by the sound of several
objects within the room clattering to the floor. He couldn't see over
the desk, but whatever had caused that sound, it hadn't been him.

"Hello?" he whispered

The room was silent.

Slowly, James stood up on the chair and peered over the piles of papers.
In the far corner of the room, he could see one of the smaller cabinets
lying sideways on the floor. Papers were strewn all around it. Somehow
it had fallen over. As quietly as he could, he dropped to the ground,
made his way to the fallen cabinet, and set it upright. He had just
begun to stuff the papers back inside when he suddenly had the feeling
he was being watched. Slowly, he turned around.

Right beside him was a boy about his own age. Except that this boy was
far paler and was covered in sutures. The boy stood there nearly
motionless, staring at James vaguely.

"Hello." said James. "What are you doing here?"

The boy did not respond, but looked about the room with mild curiosity.
It appeared to be harmless enough.

"Where did you come from?" James asked.

The boy just shrugged and began to walk about the room as though looking
for something that would keep his attention for more than half a second.

"So what is there to do around here?" asked the boy.

"Hmm?" said James. "What do you mean?"

"You know, for fun!"

James wasn't accustomed to thinking of things in
terms of fun. He liked to read Marloth and occasionally play with the
other orphans, but he had never consciously pursued *fun*. Fun was
something that just happened every now and then.

"I used to read." he said. "But my book was thrown in the fireplace. Now
I'm working on a new one."

"Sounds boring." said the boy.

"Actually, it's quite exciting. I was writing about a mad inventor named
Otto who lives in a mutated church."

The boy nodded. "Oh yeah, that guy." he said.

"You know him? But I just made him up!"

The boy again nodded vaguely and then focused on the lamp. He picked it
up and began to swing it around.

"Stop it!" James shouted. He immediately regretted this, because he was
positive everyone in the orphanage had heard him. But it didn't seem to
bother the newcomer. He just turned the lamp upside down. The oil and
flame fell all over him and instantly fizzled, sending the room into
darkness.

James stood there frozen. All he could see was solid black. The
moonlight which had illuminated the room had abandoned him. He waited
for a long time, listening carefully for the sound of footsteps along
the hall. But several minutes passed and no one came. After a time, it
occurred to him that he hadn't heard anything from the boy either. Even
though he had been even less talkative than James, James was surprised
the boy hadn't destroyed something else. Feeling about with his hands,
he managed to locate the desk. After more groping he found that the lamp
was resting on it. At least the boy had put it back. But James had seen
the boy drain all of the oil. Now it was useless. Desperate to escape
this deafening blindness, James tried the lamp anyhow.

It flickered on. It was still full of oil.

James looked around him. There was no sign of the boy. Frantically, he
searched every shadow of the room, trying to discern if the boy was
hiding. But he wasn't there.

Now James was thoroughly unnerved. He climbed back into the chair and
looked at what he had written.

> For the product of his factory was nothing short of reanimated dead
> persons.

Could it be? Had that been a zombie child? Did his writing it make it
come to life? James glanced over the room again. At first he was
frightened. But after a while, fear gave way to a rush of power. He had
to write some more!

With new energy, he set to work creating an entire world. A world
populated by a variety of demented denizens and mysterious locations.

> As the heroes made their way through the dark and haunted library, they
> were alerted by a scream to the presence of a skeleton splayed out on
> the damp ground and half concealed by moss.
>
> "What happened here?" cried one of the girls.
>
> "Oh, that was poor Philip." said Mr. Mosspuddle. "He died of
> starvation."
>
> "Did he get lost?"
>
> "No. He read a book. Something in it took away his ability to eat. No
> one was able to figure out how the book had caused it, which was due in
> part to everyone being afraid of reading the book and following in his
> plight. So he died. There are two kinds of wizards in the world: the
> careful ones and the dead ones."

James reviewed his work with pride. This was what he was made for! While
the text he penned was written in a childish manner that would have been
unintelligible to most people, it made perfect sense to him. In his head
his writing was very professional.

Throughout his narrative, he also added sections documenting various
details of the world. Much of this was taken from Marloth, though he
mixed in some of his own ideas as well. For example, Marloth had
occasionally contained references to ogres, but it did not say much
about their nature. James thought it would be fun to fill in the gaps
and imagine how they functioned. When translated into more refined and
educated language, it went something like this:

> It is a common belief that ogres are slow and stupid. There is some
> truth to that belief, and some misunderstanding. Ogres are creatures of
> momentum. Aside for their unparalleled strength and constitution, an
> ogre's base ability, both physically and mentally, is quite limited.
> However, the longer an ogre pursues a given task, the more proficient it
> becomes at that task, with no measurable limit. They are capable of
> almost anything if given enough time.
>
> For example, when an ogre decides to devote itself to crafting a weapon,
> it begins without knowing a thing about weaponry. As the ogre begins to
> think about weapons, and tinker with metal, it gradually grows in
> understanding. During this period the ogre does nothing but work on that
> craft. It does not eat. It does not sleep. It simply works. After
> several years of this, the ogre will have reached astonishing mastery of
> weapon crafting. This is how ogres, despite being initially simple and
> brutish, wield the most advanced and deadly weaponry in existence.
>
> After so many years, the ogre will eventually need to rest from its
> labors. This generally requires hibernation for nearly as long as the
> period of labor.
>
> Aside for a special process of frozen hibernation, if the ogre is ever
> interrupted from its craft for more than a few minutes, the bulk of its
> development will be lost. Thankfully for ogres, this rarely ever
> happens. It is not easy to interrupt an ogre.

As he continued writing, James' thoughts turned to Catherine. He liked
the idea of having her in the story. He wrote of a princess that would
eventually become queen. That was a good start, but after some review it
didn't seem very interesting by itself. He liked that Catherine was
sweet, but she was a little too sweet. He made his princess gradually
grow edgier. Her parents died horrible deaths. She was constantly having
to fight for her place on the throne. To aid in this struggle, he gave
her special magical powers. But the magic also corrupted her mind. She
grew bitter and broken. Before long, she was the Fallen Queen of
Marloth; brazenly dazzling and dangerously beautiful.

Then he wrote of an orphanage. An orphanage ruled by a wicked tyrant
known as Tralvorkemen. He punished all of the children for the most
trivial of offenses. He even took their beloved book of lore and
destroyed it. But one day the children rebelled. They slew the evil
headmaster and went out into the world to learn and grow and become
powerful lords and ladies.

The night seemed to stand still and go on forever. He was able to work
unceasingly as page after page of story flew from his pen. But finally
sleep did catch up with him, and he slipped into slumber, his head
resting atop of the book.

* * *

"Wake up! Wake up! Big things are happening!"

James cracked his eyes open just wide enough to see Miles shaking him
violently.

"Leave me alone." James mumbled and rolled over. Which was a mistake
because he had forgotten that he wasn't in his bed, but propped over the
desk. His head lost its perch and he landed on the floor.

"James, you've got to see this! A duke is downstairs!"

James simply groaned.

"Come on James! Everyone's already having breakfast! And then this
fellow comes along with servants and everything! And then
Mr. Tralvorkemen returns from his trip and drops his luggage in shock!
You've got to get up and see all of it!"

Before James could form the proper retort for someone trying to
sleep instead of think, Miles had lifted him to his feet and was shoving
him out of the room.

By the time they reached the bottom floor, James was fairly awake. He
was also very out of sorts. Miles had taken too much pleasure in pushing
him down the stairs.

"I don't know what you were doing in Mr. Tralvorkemen's study, but you
should be thanking me for getting you out of there before he found you."
Miles said as they entered the dining room.

There was, in fact, a Duke.

The room was chaos. More than a dozen children, halted in the middle of
their breakfast and as excited by the incident as rapidly shaken soft
drinks, were desperately trying to leave their chairs and run around the
room. Mr. Tralvorkemen was desperately trying to keep them from doing
so. Several attendants stood like statues along the wall. Though they
were not moving, they were taking up much of the already limited space.
And in the middle of this sat the Duke, surveying the surrounding
activity with cool composure.

"Come!" said Mr. Tralvorkemen. "Why don't we step into the parlor where
we can more comfortably talk?"

"Lead the way my good man." said the Duke. The two of them left the
room, followed by the Duke's attendants.

The children had no sooner been left alone than the room exploded with
voices.

"You went to the toyshop last night, didn't you?"

"Yes, I heard Catherine sneaking into the bedroom!"

"And look how tired you are! You must have stayed up all night!"

James was speechless. All eyes were on him and Catherine.

"All right! I admit---we did go last night!" said Catherine.

"Did you get anything?"

"Let us see!"

"They had to have bought *something!*"

"I would have."

While James was feeling increasingly uneasy, Catherine was thrilled by
the attention. Reaching into a makeshift purse she had been clinging too,
she took out the diadem and placed it upon her head.

The children did more than ooh and ahh. They were stunned.

"It makes you look older!" said Henry.

"It's so beautiful!" said Mary.

"That's what I want!" said Nivana.

"And what about you, James? What did you buy?"

James glanced about nervously. "Well ... I did buy a book."

"Really! Is it like your old book?"

"Sort of. Actually, it's more---"

Suddenly, Mr. Tralvorkemen threw open the door and stood staring at all
of them. He looked confused and rattled.

"Catherine," he said. "You need to pack your things. It appears that you
are to leave with this man immediately!"

"What? W-Why?" Catherine stammered.

"It turns out that you are in fact---" he stopped. His brows furrowed as
he noticed the crown. He took off his glasses and wiped his face with a
handkerchief.

"Where was I? Oh, yes, the Duke. Anyhow, the Duke claims that you are of
royal blood. Yes, I am quite serious. He told me that your parents were
killed in a revolt and you were placed here so no one would know who you
are. (Apparently they didn't even tell me.) Now, after many years of
warfare, the throne has been taken back by your uncle. He sent Duke
Philip to escort you to your new home ... in Castle Elington!"

Silence. All eyes were on Catherine.

One of the attendants courteously entered the room and bowed.

"The Duke wishes to know when the princess will be ready to embark?"

"Oh, yes---well, within a quarter of the hour!" said Mr. Tralvorkemen,
turning toward Catherine. "It would be good if you could hurry!"

Catherine paused for a moment and then raced out of the room. Since the
whole of her earthly possessions could be fit into a bag, packing would
not have taken long, except she was delayed several times by her
sentimentality as she would pause to reflect on the memories she was
leaving behind.

When she came downstairs everyone was gathered to say farewell. Most of
the children had not treated her kindly, and yet she still found it hard
to say goodbye. She could not spend time with anyone without her heart
forming attachments. When she came to James she paused.

"I owe you so much." she said. "Without you none of this would be
happening! Even though I may never see you again, I'll always remember
what you've done for me. I know you keep saying you have a muddled
memory, but please tell me you won't forget me?"

James looked at her. He *did* have a hard time remembering things,
especially names and faces, but Catherine was one of the kindest people
he had ever met. She was a ray of light in a sea of black. "I'll never
forget you." he said at last.

"Thank you!" said Catherine, and after a few more farewells, she was
through the gates, into the carriage, and gone.

* * *

Tralvorkemen stood in the doorway for a long time, gazing at the closed
gate that Catherine had disappeared through. The children watched him
curiously, waiting for some reaction, but finally they all gave up and
went about their day. Only James remained. He sat at one corner of the
entryway curled up and watching the back of the headmaster. Somehow he
knew something was happening here, something everyone else was missing.

"You went to the toyshop, didn't you?" said Tralvorkemen. There was no
hint of accusation. He sounded mournful. Now James wished he had left
with the others.

"No! Of course not!" said James.

"It makes no difference." said Tralvorkemen. "Catherine is gone. She's a
princess now, just like she wanted. I saw her crown. I know what is
happening."

"Okay, so we did go to the toyshop! What do you care? You don't care
about us! You threw away my favorite thing in the world!"

Tralvorkemen slowly shook his head. "No it wasn't. And I didn't really
throw it away."

James was stunned. "What do you mean? I saw you throw it into the fire!
I saw it burned into nothingness!"

"That is what you say now, but it is not what you would have said
yesterday. Everything has changed. I know what you purchased from the
toyshop. You purchased a writing book. And you've been penning all sorts
of stories in it. Some of them supernatural; some of them about the
orphanage."

James felt a growing uneasiness in his stomach. He had not been
expecting anything like this. "How do you know all of that?" he asked; a
mix of accusation and fear. The Headmaster passed over his question.

"What you seem to be missing is that Jakob Damond really meant what he
said. Whatever you write in that book *does* come true. That book alters
reality. But even more than that, it is not a neutral book that can be
used for good or evil. It is inherently warped by the will of the
Toymaker, and will only accomplish his vile ends."

"No!" said James. "That can't be true! He is a nice man while you've
been a bully to us all this time! I have no reason to believe you."

"You are right, that is certainly how things look. But what if---*what
if*---things weren't this way? With this orphanage and this city and
*everything?* What if *you* were different? What if *I* were different?
What if I were really a kind, fatherly man and all of you children loved
me?"

"But that's silly! I don't remember anything like that."

"Of course not! When you change reality, you change *everything.* Not
just the present; not just the future; but the past as well. However,
the reason I know what I know is because the changes were not
consistent; after all, it was written by a child. There are still
fragments of how things were before. Part of me knows I never would have
thrown away that book, though I do not know why. I did throw something
into the fire, but now I'm beginning to recall it being a different sort
of book, though I don't remember any details about it. I have vague
memories of how things should be, and I think you do as well, but that
is all we have left."

James was frightened out of his wits. His mind had always been on the
brink of one reality or another, and now he didn't know what to believe.

Tralvorkemen looked off into the distance. "What if the world had
shattered? Shattered into a myriad of dreams within dreams that dream of
the dreams which dreamt of them?"

Slowly, he rose to his feet and made his way up the stairs. Before he
had reached the top he paused to look back at James.

"There is one hope. The Author of the original Marloth. He is bigger
than all of this, and he is the only one who can make things right. He
is the only person the Toymaker fears."

He thought for a moment and then added, "However, before things can get
better, they are going to get much worse." With that, Tralvorkemen
disappeared into the twisting hallways, leaving James with the
impossible idea that things could get any worse.

* * *

James felt weak. He wanted to go find his new book, but at the same time
he was now afraid of it. His lack of sleep, the rush of the morning's
events, and Tralvorkemen's otherworldly speech had sapped all of his
energy. Dragging himself up the stairs, he limped into the boys' bedroom
and fell into an exhausted sleep.

* * *

When James finally awoke, the sun was just setting. His first thought
was that of regret. He liked Mr. Tralvorkemen a lot more after seeing
him fall apart. It was the first time he had seen the man appear out of
control. And there was something about what the man had said that
intrigued him. He wanted to ask him more about it.

Painfully, he climbed out of bed and made his way to Tralvorkemen's
study. He peered in but didn't see anyone. He went a few paces down the
hallway and knocked on the door of the headmaster's quarters. There was
no reply. It was then that he heard the sounds of laughter. The children
were playing outside.

Still groggy, he stumbled downstairs and made his way through the front
door. Sure enough, all of the children were outside playing around the
yard. Here he could see more clearly the sun dropping behind the
buildings. It was soon to be evening. Mr. Tralvorkemen always had them
inside before now.

He walked up to a group of them who were playing in the earth; digging
tunnels and building hills of dirt. They had torn up much of the yard.
The headmaster would be furious when he saw this.

"Where is Mr. Tralvorkemen?" he asked.

"Oh, he's not here." said Nivana.

That was odd. Mr. Tralvorkemen must have been more shaken than James had
thought. The headmaster never left them alone. Perhaps he really had
gone over the deep end.

"James!" said Miles. "Where have you been? Niv came up with the darndest
play!"

James noticed Miles was holding several hand puppets.

"Where did you get those from?" said James.

"Oh, I've always had these," said Miles. "Come on and help me out, will
you?"

"Maybe in a little bit." said James. He noticed several robots milling
about the grass.

"What are those?" he asked.

"I made them!" said George. "Out of spare parts!"

"Wow!" said James. "I didn't know you could do anything like that!"

"Well I helped him!" said Millamer.

James nodded vaguely. As he looked about the yard, he kept spotting
things he hadn't seen before."

"Where did you get all of these toys?" James finally asked.

"Where did you get your book?" said Nivana.

"You all went to the toyshop?" James said in surprise.

"Yes! Isn't it thrilling!" said Mary. "Mr. Damond gave all of them to us
for free! All we had to do was sign our names on some papers!"

"But Mr. Tralvorkemen will whip the lot of us when he finds out!" James
shouted. "He already knew Catherine and I had gone to the place, and he
was literally raving at me! We've got to hide these toys before he finds
out!"

"Don't worry, he won't be around for a *long* time." said Miles.

"Why?" James demanded. "Where is Mr. Tralvorkemen?"

The children turned to look at him as though they were the adults and he
was the child.

"If you must know," said Nivana. "You're standing on him."

* * *

James looked down at the large mound of dirt below him.

"He was going to take away our toys!"

"We couldn't let that happen!"

"He was such a mean old man!"

James couldn't believe what he was hearing. "You mean to tell me that
he's *here?*" he said, pointing at the mound. "You *killed* him?"

"It was the only way!"

"He didn't want us to be happy! He meant for us to be miserable!"

"And besides, he was the most wretched man. Now he's at peace."

James couldn't take anymore. He ran into the house and up the stairs.
Climbing floor after floor, he fled into the study and closed the door
behind him.

His heart still beating a million miles per minute, he crossed the room
and sat down behind the desk. The book was still open right where he had
left it. Had Tralvorkemen been right? Were the toys really evil? Either
way, the headmaster was gone now. Suddenly James felt all alone. He was
frightened of the other orphans. His vision fell upon the open book.
This was all his fault! But what if Tralvorkemen had been wrong about
the book only producing corruption? Now that he knew the danger, maybe
he could fix things ... Rushing over to the desk, he took up the pen and
began to write fervently, trying to conjure up the happiest images he
could think of. *Knock! Knock! Knock!*

James ignored it and continued writing. *Knock! Knock! Knock!*

"Go away!" he shouted. "You're all possessed!" *Knock! Knock! Knock!*

James slammed the pen against the desk so hard it snapped, spewing ink
all over him. Furious, he stormed over to the door and threw it open.

"That's it!" he screamed. "Now you're---"

He stopped. There were three children standing in the hall, but they
weren't any of the orphans. By now the sun had set, and there was no
light to reveal their faces, but he knew they weren't anyone he had met
before.

"Who are you?" he demanded.

"We want to play with you!" said the children, as they shoved their way
into the room.

"I'm sorry, but---what am I saying? I'm not sorry! I don't know who you
are, but you need to get out of here at once!"

"He doesn't like us!" said one of them.

"I don't like anyone right now!" James shouted. "I've got a lot of stuff
crammed in my mind and I need some time to think! Just leave me alone so
I can write in peace!"

"That's not fair!" said another. "We like him. He has no right to go
hating us!"

James' temper snapped. He grabbed one of the children and spun them
around.

For the first time, he had a good look at their faces.

The children were badly disfigured and covered with stitches. Their skin
was pale. What at first he had thought to be spots of dirt were actually
splotches of dried blood. The children immediately stopped and looked at
him, hurt expressions on their faces.

"He hates us! I can see it in the way he's looking at us!"

"He only hates us because we're zombies!"

"The spoiled brat!"

"I-I d-don't hate you!" James sputtered.

"Well he most certainly won't want to play with us!" said one of them.
Without hesitation, she shattered the glass front of one of the cabinets
with her fist and pulled out some of the business instruments within it.
She examined one of them and then hurled it at James, who barely managed
to dodge it.

"Don't hurt me!" he shrieked.

"Hold on!" said one of them. "I know how we can make him like us and
play with us!"

"How?" asked the others.

"If he was a zombie!"

"But Mr. Otto couldn't make him into a zombie because he's alive! Mr.
Otto can only ... "

And then it dawned upon them. The heads of the children turned in unison
to stare at James, who had slowly inched around the desk so that it
stood between him and them. Slowly, the children began to circle the
desk. "Get away from me!" James cried. "Miles! Niv! Help me! *HELP ME!"*

But none of the orphans replied. As far as he knew, they were in a whole
other world.

The zombie children leapt upon him. Each of them snatched his flailing
limbs, and with one stomach lurching swing, hurled him through the
window. It shattered into a myriad of spinning shards glittering about
him like pixies, carrying him along as he floated into the air. For a
moment, the lamp lit streets were stretched out before him. Time seemed
to freeze. And then, he began to fall. He left his stomach far above him
as he picked up speed, falling mile after mile after mile. Then, he
looked down and saw the ground hurtling upward, rushing to meet him
faster and faster until
