# Part 4

*Dear Sir,*

*It has come to my attention that you have destroyed my ledger of
contracts. You know the rules; you know the forces at work here: whoever
nullifies that ledger will himself be nullified. In this case, even
though they do not know that rule, your children are unwittingly eager
to fulfill it. But I don't want to see you dead. I am a very merciful
person, and am willing to make an exception in your case. If you never
return to the children, I will forget about the whole thing.*

*So please heed my advice: do not go back to your orphanage. Your
children hate you, and if you return, they* **will** *kill you.*

*Best of luck,*

*Jakob Damond*

* * *

For such a late hour, the train was surprisingly full of passengers.
*"Don't people ever sleep around here?"* James wondered to himself.
Seeing that there was no room in the car he had boarded, he starting
making his way up the train to find an empty seat.

It was a very long train.

After crossing several cars, he paused between two of them to look out
at the passing view. They had left the city behind them, and were in
open country. It was now full night, and the hills looked blue in the
moonlight. The train itself was raised far off of the ground on a wall
that rose high above the ground. Eventually, the wall was replaced by a
tall platform, and James realized that the tracks were gradually rising
higher and higher. Before long, the tracks were so far off of the ground
that the train popped out and over the clouds, a new level of
bluish-white hills stretching into the distance. And yet there was still
another, thinner layer of clouds overhead, so that this new view didn't
look much different from when they were on the ground, and for that
matter, James began to find it hard to tell whether he really was
looking at rolling clouds or if they were still beside the rolling
hills.

As he continued along the train, he found that many people were
sleeping. He couldn't imagine how they could manage it, seeing that
there were so many people still up and talking to one another. For most
of the passengers it was a regular social gathering. A group of people
would be debating over politics and then a passerby would stop to give
his opinion. In one car there was a boxing match, with all of the walls
lined with men shouting enthusiastically. James had a difficult time
getting past that car. (Partially because he went *through* the match,
and one of the contenders tripped over him.) Every now and then he would
pass a peddler selling various wares. Some were selling souvenirs.
Others were selling evening meals and tea. One looked to be a postman,
delivering mail to the passengers. At one point, he passed a man who had
somehow managed to bring a piano on board and had several violinists to
accompany him.

The train was like a late night village.

James eventually came upon a car near the front of the train that had
only a few people occupying it. James took a seat in one corner and
spent some time staring out the window at the rolling hill-clouds.

Eventually he lost interest and looked a second time around the cab.
There was a gentleman sitting not far from him who was reading a
newspaper. On the front page James saw the following headline:

CASTLE ATTACKED BY ZOMBIE CHILDREN. PLACE UTTERLY DESTROYED.

Below that was a vague article depicting the night's events and a
picture of the castle in flames. He wished he could walk over to the man
and ask for a closer look at the paper, but he felt it would be better
to keep a low profile.

It was around then that it occurred to him that he was wearing a
satchel. Curious, he slid it off his shoulder and examined its contents.
It had some food and needles and thread and a handkerchief. And then
there was a book. Too afraid to hope, he quickly pulled the book out and
looked at it.

It was Marloth. The *real* Marloth. He couldn't believe it. With joy
inexpressible, he opened the book and began to read. He read about a
little boy who was trying to escape from an Asylum. The boy was running
through a labyrinth of corridors while being accompanied by a raven.
Behind them a crowd of angry people was giving chase. Then they came
across a card game being played by a monkey, a zombie child, a cloth
animal, and a madman. A bizarre conversation ensued. Eventually the
cloth animal agreed to help the boy escape from the Asylum.

"I don't know what you think you're reading," said a voice. "But that is
*not* how it went down."

James lowered the book to find Fugue staring up at him. "I'm serious."
said Fugue. "I don't even talk like that."

"I knew you were alive!" said James.

"And I knew you were alive too!" said Fugue, whatever that was supposed
to mean. They sat back down on the bench and talked about old times.
Fugue was much larger now. He was still shorter than James, but not by
much.

"So what are you doing now?" said Fugue. "Please tell me you're on a
quest! I'm starving for a good adventure!"

"Well, I suppose I am on a quest of sorts."

"Awesome! What's the gig?"

"Right now I'm trying to find a princess. And rescue her."

"More Awesome! I love rescuing princesses! What are we rescuing her
from?

"Most everyone." said James.

"Us against the world, huh?"

"That's about the gist of it."

"Most Awesome! Trying to save the world or fighting against it, either
way works for me."

As they were speaking, a new passenger entered the car and sat down
across from them.

James' eyes widened. "That's Mr. Mosspuddle!" he exclaimed to Fugue.

"Who?"

"The custodian of the Great Library! I wonder what brings him here?"

James and his cloth companion went over to the toad, who had been too
preoccupied to notice them.

"Hello." said James. Mr. Mosspuddle looked up in surprise.

"Why hello." he said in return. "We spoke once, didn't we? I don't think
I caught your name."

"I'm James." said James. "What are you doing outside the Library? Are
you gathering new books?"

"No. Never again. I was fired."

"Fired? From the Great Library?"

"Yes. For the first time in as long as I can remember, I am unemployed."

"But who could fire you? The wizards can't do that!"

"Yes, they can. And they did. Somehow they discovered that I had not
destroyed your book. They were furious. I am fortunate to be alive."
(Though his tone did not sound very fortunate.) After several moments of
quiet, Mr. Mosspuddle pulled himself together.

"I'm sorry. You don't need to be dwelling on my problems. How have you
been?"

"Great." said Fugue. "We just escaped an Asylum."

"That's nice." said Mr. Mosspuddle.

"And now we're trying to find Adelle." said James.

"You mean the princess?"

"Yes. We're going to rescue her."

"Rescue her from whom?"

"Most everyone. Do you know what happened to the castle?"

"Yes, I read about it in the paper. Most dreadful! They say the king and
queen have been presumed dead! Without their leadership, I fear this
world might lose what little sense of order it still claimed. But what
of the princess? Each paper says something different about her
situation; I don't even know if she is still alive!"

"She's alive. I think she's in the City of Orphans."

"The City of Orphans? That is one of the most dangerous places in
Marloth! What makes you think she is there?"

"I can sense her. At least I think it's her."

"That's kind of creepy. How in the world can you do that?"

"I don't know. I wasn't able to sense her in the castle. But now I can.
It's not so much a sense of direction as an idea that Adelle is
somewhere within that city. I think it might be a zombie thing."

"That's even creepier."

"Would you like to come too?" Fugue asked him.

Mr. Mosspuddle looked surprised. "I don't know that I could be of any
use! And the City of Orphans; I probably wouldn't survive more than a
few minutes! If the princess really is in the City, I would be willing
to give a great deal to get her away from that place, but I don't think
I have anything to give."

"You know a lot about books, and all of our hopes lie in this one." said
James, and he put Marloth onto the table. The librarian jumped as if
James had just set the table on fire.

"That book! It's what got me fired!"

"You never got fired. The only person who can fire you is Edward
Tralvorkemen, not the wizards. He created the Library. As far as I'm
concerned, you are still and always will be the head librarian of the
Great Library."

"I can't say I share your ideas of this Tralvorkemen, but I have to
agree with your assessment of the wizards. And I am dying to explore
this book you have."

"If you come with us you'll be able to read it all you like."

Mr. Mosspuddle rubbed the back of his bald head nervously.

"You can count me amongst your number." he said at last. "Not that I
will be of much use, but I will do what I can. I just hope you are
misled about Princess Adelle's whereabouts. If she truly is in the City,
I don't know what any of us can do."

"I think this will answer a lot of your questions." said James, and he
handed him the book. The toad hesitated, and then eagerly took it and
began to read. He read all the way to the City of Orphans.

* * *

After much work and practice, the evening of Adelle's performance
finally arrived. She was preparing to leave for the Theatre for her
final rehearsal and passing by Ivy's room when Ivy popped out and called
out to her.

"Adelle, we need to talk."

Adelle looked back in surprise. "Okay, but I don't have much time. I
need to be at the Theatre for my final rehearsal." She followed Ivy into
the room and Ivy closed the door behind them.

"Please have a seat." Ivy said. Once they were both seated on the edge
of Ivy's bed Adelle asked her what she wanted to talk about. Ivy had
been thinking about how to introduce this for some time, but she still
considered a moment longer before beginning.

"I don't completely know why, but everyone is nicer when they are around
you. Even I feel more gracious when I am with you."

Adelle beamed. "I'm glad I can be an encouragement to you."

"Yes, well, that making-people-act-nicer-thing ... it goes for Bobby
too. When he is around you he is more civil than I have ever seen him."

"Really? I was wondering if I could be a positive influence on him."

Ivy grimaced. This wasn't exactly the direction she was wanting to go.
"But that's the thing: you aren't really changing anyone. When Bobby is
out of your sight he is just the same as he always was. The good you've
seen is only on the surface. You've never seen his darker side."

"I don't believe in giving up on people so easily! Maybe he does have a
darker side, but I think I can help him. He just needs someone who
understands him."

"I don't want you to understand him! In order to truly do that you would
need to experience things ... do things ... that you could never
reverse. I like you the way you are, and I don't want you to lose that.
Please, *please* don't get too close to Bobby."

"Well then, which boy do you recommend? Harris? Thome? Or maybe Osmand?"

"No. None of those. Not even Osmand."

"Well then once again I ask, which boy do you recommend?"

"No one. None of the boys are good enough for you."

"But they are good enough for you?"

"Yes."

"I hope you don't think I'm better than you."

"It's not like that. You have something I don't have. Something I don't
think I ever had. You have hope. I look at you and I almost begin to
wonder if the fairytales really are true; if there really can be happy
endings."

"I do believe in happy endings! And I think those can happen to anybody,
even Bobby. Why are you so down on him and the other boys?"

Ivy thought for a long time and then finally said, "I'll tell you why,
but first you have to promise never to repeat it to anyone."

"I promise!"

"It stays between you and me. No one else can know!"

"I won't say a word of it to anyone. Cross my heart and hope to die!"

Ivy winced. "Okay." she said at last. "Here I go. I've never told this
to anyone before. I'm popular, right?  I got that modeling gig.  I have friends in all of the most prominent families.  But how do you think I got there? I'm not a princess
like you. Sure, my mother is a bit of a celebrity, but being her
daughter draws more negative attention than positive. I have money and
decent looks, and that helps, but so do hundreds of other girls in this
city, and most of them are hardly ever heard of. Do you know why I'm so
popular? It's because I've sold myself to anyone and everyone. Everyone I've ever known has
used and abused me. Everyone except you."

Ivy paused as though she expected Adelle to comment, but Adelle was very
quiet. And wide eyed. Ivy sighed and then continued.

"I don't understand myself. I love boys. I can't stop thinking about
them. And yet all they've ever done is hurt me. I keep
throwing myself at them, and I keep getting crushed into the ground and
the rare drops of good in me stolen away. I hate to say it, but they are
stronger. Even when it's all a matter of magic, somehow they are still
stronger. No matter how nice they act at first, deep down they are all
thugs. My mother is the only woman I know who is more powerful than men,
and look what she had to become to reach that? I don't want to be my
mother!"

It was at this point that they were interrupted by one of the servants,
who came to tell Adelle the carriage was waiting to take her to the
Theatre for her preparations before the show.

"I'm sorry, I have to go!" Adelle said to Ivy once the servant had left.

"No worry. I shouldn't spend all day boring you with my problems."

"What you are saying is *not* boring! I'm so honored that you would
share your heart with me! Hopefully we can continue this after the
show!"

"I can't say that I share that hope. But we'll see. Now hurry along or
you'll be late."

Adelle rose and hurried to the door, but before she left, she turned and
said, "I don't believe the world is nearly as bad as you think it is."

"And I want you to keep believing that. You're the best drug I've ever
had."

* * *

The train slowed to a stop on the outskirts of the City of Orphans. The
three heroes looked to be the only passengers getting off at that
destination.

There were not many people out on the streets. Here and there could be
seen a lone peddler pushing his cart or a woman of questionable virtues
standing on a corner or a group of children moving from one bar to
another. Silhouettes could be seen through many of the lit windows.
After brief conferring, they set off down one of the streets.

"I see you're still dead."

James looked up to find the raven resting on a signpost above them.

"Why, hello." said James.

The raven scanned the party, paused for a moment at Fugue, and turned
back to James. "What are you doing with one of Jakob Damond's
minions?"

Fugue noticed that he was the focus of the Raven's gaze. "Who? Me? I'm no
minion. I'm Fugue!"

"You're an enchanted toy. There are few enchanted toys in this world who
haven't escaped his taint."

"Well I'm one of them that did."

"The odds are against it."

"Well they're not against me. I'm as odd as they get."

The raven snorted in spite of himself.

"Who is this Jakob Damond you speak of?" asked Mr. Mosspuddle.

"The toymaker." said James.

The raven shook his head. "That title is a charade. The more I have learned of this place, the more I have seen how the toymaker doesn't make anything. He steals existing creations,
curses them, and then sells them to clueless people he wants to control. We have already passed several toyshops along this street, and all of them
were shuttered. They were driven out of business because they had no more
merchandise to sell."

"I've seen some of those toys, but Fugue is different. said James. "Fugue was not made in any toyshop, and he was never stolen by any
toymaker. He was made by children. Real, live children.
Fugue is one of the good guys."

The raven looked back at Fugue. "Very well. Maybe you aren't an agent of
Jakob Damond. But even so, you can't be very useful. You're just a
fluffy collection of scraps."

"You would not be saying that if I had my equipment! Every one of the
rare artifacts I collected throughout my travels possessed awesome
powers! But alas, I do not know what happened to them. At the moment I
am more bare than dog." And then his face grew sterner. "But even
without my equipment I am still a force to be reckoned with."

The raven chuckled in an unaffirming way and turned to the toad. "And
what's this creature?"

"Hello, Mr. Raven. I am Mr. Mosspuddle, former custodian of the Great
Library. It is a pleasure to meet you."

"If you are pleased to meet me then you are a fool." said the raven.

The librarian was shocked. "That's not a very nice thing to say!" he
told the raven, who rolled his eyes.

"It's humor. Softens the blow. Makes people laugh. 'Service with a
smile', that's my motto." Then he turned back to James.

"So what are you all doing in the City of Orphans?"

"We're here to rescue Adelle." said James.

"You're still after the princess? Getting stabbed and thrown into an
endless abyss wasn't enough for you? Well good luck with that. What
makes you think she's here in the City?"

"I can sense her." said James. "Somehow I know she is somewhere around
the City."

"That's kind of creepy."

"Unfortunately I'm having a hard time figuring out which direction she
is. Do you have any idea which part of the City I could find her?"

"No, I do not. Aside for the messages of doom I have delivered here, I
know very little about this world. Except that it is dark. And it smells
bad."

If James' had possessed a watch, he would have been looking at it.
"While this is an interesting conversation, we really need to get
moving."

The raven dropped down and landed on Mr. Mosspuddle's head.

"Ouch." said the toad.

"You are the most curious band I have ever met." said the raven. "I am
dying to see what trouble you are going to get into. And how James
croaks."

Thus the four of them continued down the foreboding avenue. By then the
streets were even less crowded than they had been earlier. Before long,
the four of them were the only people traversing the streets. All of
them had grown rather quiet. Even the raven had not spoken for some
time, which was in itself unnatural.

"I don't like this!" whispered the toad to James. "There must be some
form of a curfew! And we're trespassing against it!"

"There are no signs that mention anything like a curfew." said James.
"Though I must admit, there must be *some* reason why we're the only
people outside."

"Not the only ones." whispered the raven, who was still perched atop Mr.
Mosspuddle's head. "Don't look back, but we're being followed."

"By what?"

"By a monkey."

James stopped. "Did it have a wicked grin?"

"All the time." said the raven.

James continued walking, now at a faster pace.

"Exactly what is going on?" the librarian demanded. "I think I have a
right to know how much trouble we are in!"

"That monkey works for the toymaker." said James.

Mr. Mosspuddle's already large eyes grew even wider. "You mean the
Jakob-Damond-Toymaker?"

"Yes."

Fugue sidled up to James and spoke to him, saying, "I'm a little
embarrassed to ask, but do you happen to have any weapons to spare?"

James replied that he didn't have any weapons at all.

"Then this is a fine pickle!" said Fugue.

"But aren't you still a force to be reckoned with?" James asked him.

"Yeah. I am. But I would require even more reckoning if I had a gun!"
After some quick searching Fugue was able to find a stick, and he said
that would help a great deal.

Eventually they came across a confusing looking sign that may have been
some sort of map. In the midst of all its complicated circles and boxes,
there was an arrow with the inscription scrawled above it: "You might be
here."

"I think we should split up." said James. "We can cover more ground that
way."

"But won't that make us more vulnerable to all of the dangers around
us?" asked Mr. Mosspuddle.

"How about this, you and Fugue can stay together. The raven and I will
split up and keep looking for Adelle separately."

"Who said anything about me looking for Adelle?" spoke the raven.

"Do you have anything better to do?"

"No."

The group split up. As they dispersed, James mulled over which way
to turn. He knew nothing about the City's present layout, which was
understandable since it had probably already changed within the short
period they had been there. Where should he go to get information? He
had no idea where the right place was, or if he was already at the right
place, or if there even was a right place. After making a round of the
block, he spotted a nearby sign with the words "Happy Little Inn"
written on it. Inns were good places to get information, or so he had
heard.

Stepping through the doorway beneath the sign, he found himself in a tea
house filled with half a dozen tables. The front of the room was one
large glass window with pretty designs painted along the edges. The back
wall of the room was lined with a bar and stools. Behind this stood a
stout woman who was vigorously wiping teacups. It was the nurse from the
castle.

The nurse turned around and spotted James. "Have a seat!" she commanded,
motioning to one of the tables by the front window and then returned back to her work. James approached the table and found that it was
ridiculously small. James was not big, even for a child, and yet he had
a terrible time trying to squeeze between the chair and table. When he
finally managed to reach a position that could be considered sitting, he
found himself longing for the days when he could feel no pain.

After waiting there for quite some time, a door to the side opened and
out came what James could only surmise was a child's doll. She came
skipping out with a notepad in one hand and a platter with a napkin and
utensils in the other.

"Hello!" she said, curtsying. "My name is Samantha! What's yours?"

"James." said James.

"How nice to meet you!" she said, setting the platter's contents onto
the table. "What would you like to eat?"

"What is there to eat?" asked James.

"Well, there are crumpets!"

"And what else is there?"

"Well, we also have crumpets!"

"Do you have anything besides that?"

"If none of our other wares interest you, there's always crumpets!"

James frowned. The doll smiled eagerly.

"Well then, I guess I feel like a crumpet." said James.

"What a wonderful coincidence!" said Samantha. "That happens to be all
that we have! And tea, of course!"

"But of course."

"I'll bring you both!" she said. With that, she curtsied and retreated
back behind the door.

The nurse continued to work with her back to James. It was hard for him
to discern what in the world she was actually doing, if anything, but
she certainly appeared to be busy, whatever the case.

The door at the other side of the room swung open and what looked like a
stuffed swan waddled through and began to dust off the tables with its
wings. James was watching this and wondering just how sanitary the
creature's wings were when he remembered that his primary intention in
coming there was to get information, not food. He didn't even need to
eat, seeing that he was dead. *I couldn't starve if I wanted to*, he
noted to himself.

"Hello, um, do you know anything about a princess from a nearby castle?"
he asked. He had no sooner said this than he realized just how stupid it
sounded. He never had been very good at asking for help.

"Oh, you mean Princess Adelle!" said the swan.

"Why---yes," said James, surprised. "You know her?"

"Doesn't everybody? It's the biggest news around here! A few nights ago
the castle was attacked by an army of those dreadful zombies! But she's
a very resourceful girl! She managed to escape the lot of them!"

"Oh dear!" said Samantha, who had just returned with a platter of
crumpets and a pot of tea. "Don't even mention those terrible creatures!
If a zombie ever came around here, I'd probably faint!"

"Don't worry," said the swan. "Miss Bethany can handle any number of
zombies that come this way!"

The nurse half turned from her work and glared about the room as though
to testify the fact, and James swore he heard a growl.

"Did I hear someone mention Adelle?" said a doll with a ginger-like
smile as it stepped through the doorway.

"Why yes," said the swan. "This nice young man is an acquaintance of
hers!"

"That's wonderful!" yet another doll said as it stepped through the
doors. "Any friend of Adelle's is a friend of ours!"

"*Egad!*" thought James. "*They're multiplying!*"

"But I do have to say," said Miss Perrywinkle. "That girl has something
of a temper about her. She still has a lot of growing up to do!"

James grabbed one of the crumpets and took a bite out of it. Now he was
glad he had no need to eat. The things tasted like plastic.

"Do you know where Adelle is now?" James asked, pushing the platter
aside and trying the tea.

"She's probably at the playhouse. That's where most everyone is right
now!"

He knew little of such things, but the tea tasted an awful lot like tap
water. At least it had a neutral flavor.

"And where may I find this playhouse?" he asked

Samantha shrugged. "It's not in here! I know that much!"

"Do any of you know of someone who could tell me?" he asked.

"The Enchantress should know. You can find her at her business." said
Mrs. Gingersmile.

"And what is her business?" James asked.

"She owns the playhouse!"

By this time, any doubts in James' mind had been thoroughly bludgeoned
to death: this was clearly *not* the place to be asking for help. James
tried to get out of his chair, fell onto the floor in the process, and
finally managed to get to his feet.

"Thank you for everything." he said. "What do I owe you for the food?"

"Why, you have to kiss us, of course!"

"Kiss you?"

"Yes, each of us!"

James stood there for a moment.

"I have a little money." he said.

"Who needs money in a fairytale world?" said Mrs. Gingersmile. "Now be a
good boy and stop trying to gyp us!"

And thus it came to pass that James went around the room and kissed each
of the dolls on the forehead. Then, turning to the nurse, who still had
her back to them, he motioned toward her inquisitively.

"I wouldn't if you want to live." Samantha whispered to him, rather
loudly.

James nodded, and then, deciding that this was his chance to get the
hell out of there, burst through the door and peeled down the street.

The dolls gathered at the doorway and merrily waved goodbye.

* * *

After James had run a few blocks, he eventually stopped to listen to a
particularly loud ruckus that was nearby. He turned a corner to find Mr.
Mosspuddle surrounded by several zombie children, all of them circling
the librarian eagerly. A few of them were brandishing torches and were
shouting something about baked frog legs. Mr. Mosspuddle was cowering in
their midst, tightly clinging to his books and desperately trying to
explain that he was not a frog, but a toad.

Suddenly Fugue burst from the shadows, hurled something onto the ground
that enveloped everyone in smoke, and whisked the toad away. James was
far enough from the action to see past the smoke and follow the two of
them to a safe place behind several buildings and alongside a waterway.
They were soon rejoined by the raven, and then all four of them shared
the results of their searching. Since Adelle was currently *the* hot
topic of the City each of the heroes had been able to find at least some
idea of Adelle's whereabouts, but the raven held the most comprehensive
intelligence.

"She's at the Theatre. She's giving a big singing performance. That's
where most everybody is right now."

"Wait, Adelle can sing?"

"She's a princess. Of course she can sing."

* * *

After a final rehearsal, the patrons were allowed to start taking their
seats. Adelle watched through the edge of the curtain as hundreds of
people began to fill the auditorium. In a remarkably short amount of
time every seat was occupied. It was a sea of people. A sea of eyes.
Hundreds of minds, ready to take in every move she made, every word she
spoke, every note she sang. She was like a person with vertigo who knows
that they shouldn't stare down the edge of the precipice but are unable
to pull themselves away. The more she thought about it, the more her
anxiety grew until it was gorged by her own insecurity.

Then the moment came. As the curtains were pulled back, she felt like
she was being disrobed before the entire world so that every one of them
could see her nakedness. But they did not see anything to be ashamed of.
Everyone applauded as she was revealed before them, and then the
applause gradually descended into a hushed silence.

The silence hung for some time, every moment creating more and more
tension. Adelle knew she should begin, but she was frozen. She could
feel every one of those eyes staring at her, as though they were boring
through her and dissecting her and discarding everything they found
lacking.

Then, a hint of peace fell upon her like a warm blanket on a cold night.
She did not know where it had come from, except that it had come from
outside of her. It felt foreign, and yet familiar. It was not of
considerable size, but it was enough for her to begin.

She sang a note. Timidly. Her voice quivered and the word itself was
nearly unintelligible. Probably some critic near the back of the crowd
auditorium snickered. Then she sang another note. And another. Each
syllable developed more and more strength, more and more confidence.
Each tone grew clearer, each note more pleasing to the ear and piercing
to the heart. Before long the warmth had engulfed her and she had
forgotten about the people and she was in the moment and singing with
all her might.

> Déjà vu
>
> Do I know you?
>
> Have I been here before now?
>
> The days pass me by, and drift away
>
> Forever why
>
> Can I not cry
>
> For the loved ones who've faded?
>
> Am I truly so jaded within?
>
> As my heart begs to melt
>
> Ice turns to tears
>
> Foes turn to friends
>
> Hope replaces fear

When she hit the chorus her voice soared, and the audience soared with
her.

> Please don't tell me that I'm dreaming
>
> I so want to believe that the fairytale is true
>
> I've never been so happy before
>
> I stand before the stranger that I've always known

Far above the audience and near the back of the auditorium, a raven, a
toad, a cloth animal, and a zombie boy were watching the performance
from the rafters.

"I've never seen the princess before." said Fugue. "She's very
beautiful."

"How can you tell?" asked Mr. Mosspuddle. "I can barely discern her
figure from this distance."

"I can tell." said Fugue.

The raven snickered. "She's dressing more conservatively."

"Conservatively?"

"Yes, she's conserving material."

James was the only one who did not say anything. He just watched and
listened, not missing a detail.

> Though I desperately try
>
> To imprison my eyes
>
> The visions still course through my mind
>
> Shivering and afraid
>
> I gaze up in surprise
>
> As I hear someone calling my name
>
> And then I am drowned
>
> By the million sounds
>
> Of memories long since thrown away
>
> The morn of my birth
>
> The taste of first love
>
> And the wondrous face of God

Everyone rose to their feet as she sang the final chorus.

> Please don't tell me that I'm dreaming
>
> I so want to believe that the fairytale is true
>
> I've never been so happy before
>
> I stand before the stranger that I've always known

When Adelle finished, every person in the room was leaping up and down
and applauding until their hands were ready to bleed. Within less than
an hour, a little girl had inspired the world.

After the performance, Adelle attempted to meet her endless fans. There
were people everywhere she turned, and many Query Gremlins and questions
and flashes of blinding light. The performance had gone so well that the
Lady Mediev asked Adelle if she would be willing to sing at least one
song at the upcoming Ball. Adelle said she would love to. Eventually the
Lady felt that Adelle had performed enough of the required socializing
(something which Adelle readily agreed with), and the princess was
discreetly escorted through the top exit and into a carriage which
spirited her away. Not to be thwarted by such an easy escape, crowds of
adoring fans gave pursuit behind the carriage. Among these was the band
of heroes, who tracked Adelle all the way to the Mediev Manor. They
gathered on a nearby rooftop that provided an excellent vantage of the
Manor and kept them free from the mindless throng below. There the
heroes planned their next move.

First they argued over whose house they were looking at, and then they
argued over whether Adelle was a prisoner or willingly residing there.
James was adamant that she was in danger either way.

"We need to find a way into that building." said James.

"We? I'd rather have no part in that." said Mr. Mosspuddle. "I'll leave
the breaking and entering to you."

The raven shook himself as though being zapped by currents of
electricity. "That place is crawling with enchantments! I can sense them
clear over here! What need does she have for so much magic?"

Fugue looked down at the crowded street. "It's crawling with people,
too. It won't be easy to gain entrance with all of those bodies running
around. They look like they're ready to break into the house themselves,
and that's probably making the people inside that place extra defensive.
Maybe we should come back later when this isn't the hot place to be."

James shook his head. "We don't have that kind of time! For all we know,
terrible things could be happening to her as we speak!"

"Okay, then can you tell me how we are going to get in there? Beside
this noble stick, I don't have any weapons, while there are at least
four well armed guards patrolling that building---no, make it six ...
seven ... oh, and there's another one over there. Egad! That place's
defenses have defenses! We couldn't get close enough to even look for an
opening! At least not now."

James turned to the raven. "What about you? Could fly around it and get
a good lay of the land?"

"Did you hear nothing about enchantments? That place is riddled with
them! Magic is one of the few things I have reason to fear, and this is
*the* *Enchantress* we're talking about. Magic is her breakfast cereal!"

"But if you detect the enchantments, can't you also avoid them?"

"Yes. Staying away is how I do that."

"But what do the enchantments do?"

"I don't know. Maybe they make flowers grow; maybe they turn intruders
into mud. I'm not going to find out. If you want to rescue your
princess, then by all means do so, but don't try to get me killed!"

James was getting frustrated. He started talking about going into the
Manor on his own but Mr. Mosspuddle begged him not to be so rash.
Tempers were growing increasingly heated when Fugue grabbed James'
sleeve and, with much excitement, pointed down at the street.

"Look! It's a carriage just like the one Adelle rode in! It even has
another of those gnomes driving it. I bet you candy it's heading to that
building!"

"So what's your point?"

"We need to get under it! It will take us right through the gates and
into the dragon's lair!"

"Is that safe?" Mr. Mosspuddle asked.

"Are you kidding? None of this is safe!"

And without further deliberation, he threw himself into the crowd. James
glanced at Mr. Mosspuddle, who looked like he would prefer a little more
deliberation, and then the carriage, which was about to pass them by.
James followed after Fugue.

He landed on the heads of several zombie children and then on the ground
just as the carriage passed directly over him, knocking pedestrians in
all directions. James and Fugue were both able to catch onto the
underworkings of the carriage, where they found several other zombie
children already clinging onto it as well. Fugue quickly disengaged
these from their holds.

The carriage sliced a path through the rest of the crowd and, just as
Fugue had predicted, passed through the gates of the Manor. The carriage
stopped briefly in front of the main entrance to deliver its sole
passenger, which was Ivy. She stepped out of the carriage looking
altogether bored, sleepy, and of a mind to stay up even later.

Once she was inside the Manor, the carriage proceeded to a nearby
carriage house that was connected to the rest of the building. As the
servants focused their attention on parking the carriage and
unharnessing the emus, Fugue and James disengaged from their hiding
place and slipped into the halls of the Manor. They decided to split up
and explore the building.

Fortunately, there were many children running around the Manor, so the
few times James was spotted no one thought anything of him. His sensing
of Adelle was growing stronger, but he still had a hard time pinning it
down to a particular direction. He was at least fairly certain she was
near the front of the Manor. After searching for some time with no
success, he was rejoined by Fugue, who came hurrying toward him with a
look of great excitement.

"I have important news! The Lady Mediev employs ogres!"

James didn't understand his excitement. "I don't remember much about
ogres." was all he said.

"Ogres are always armed to the teeth! They hoard weapons! Massive
weapons of destruction!"

"So why are you saying this? Should we keep our distance from them?"

"No! We need to take their weapons! Find their stashes! Stock up on
firepower!"

James made some noncommittal comment and Fugue, like a child on
Christmas morning, again left him, this time in search of the armory.
James wasn't entirely happy about Fugue's prioritizing weapons over the
princess, but he was too preoccupied with his own searching to dwell on
that.

After further exploration, James came across an unlocked door that led
to a second story room at the front of the house. As he opened it just
enough to peer inside, he was rewarded to find Adelle sitting on a bed
and taking off her slippers. Overjoyed, James opened the door the rest
of the way and stepped inside.

Adelle saw James, froze for an instant, and then screamed with all of
her might.

"Wait!" said James. "I can explain, I'm just---"

The door again opened and in stepped the Lady Mediev.

"Now what is the matter?" she demanded.

Adelle scrambled backwards, frantically pointing at James. The Lady
looked at James, and then back at Adelle. "Yes, I can see him. And your
point is ... ?"

"He's a zombie!" Adelle shouted.

Once again, the Lady Mediev looked back and forth from Adelle to James.

"And that's a problem because ... ?"

"He's a zombie! Zombies are evil! They do terrible things to girls like
me! And he's in my bedroom!"

After carefully analyzing the scene, it finally dawned upon the Lady.
"*Ohhhh*." she said at last. "Now I see." she snapped her fingers and
James froze solid with his eyes glazed over. "No need to worry. He won't
hurt you now."

Adelle remained on the opposite side of her bed, still eyeing James
fearfully. "What do you mean? How do you know he won't hurt me?"

"Because I just cast a spell on him. Now the boy is under my full
control. He will do anything I ask in the vain hope of receiving my
approval. I could have him jump into a vat of acid if I felt like it,
and he would gladly do it." She smiled. "It's a lot of fun. With some
practice, you'll be able to do the same."

Adelle didn't really seem to be listening. In fact, she looked like she
was going to be sick.

The Lady turned toward James. "Go out into the hall." she commanded, and
he complied, his hands outstretched in front of him like a ... well,
like a zombie.

Adelle was feeling terrible. She could not get the image of James getting stabbed from her mind. Feeling woozy, she sat
down on the bed.

The Lady Mediev walked across the room and stopped at an ornate, wooden
cupboard. Taking a key from one of her pockets, she unlocked a door in
the cupboard and lifted out a silver platter upon which were stacked a
pile of what looked like pieces of charcoal.

"Here, try one of these!" said the Lady.

Adelle shivered. "Eww! What's that?"

"Why, they're Jillybons!" said the Lady. "It's all the rave in the City.
Try one; they'll cheer you up in a trice!"

Adelle timidly took one and smelled it. It even *smelled* like charcoal.
Or worse.

"Come on! Don't be a baby!" the Lady scolded. "Eat it!"

Adelle gathered her courage and shoved the object into her mouth. She
nearly choked. It tasted worse than it smelled.

"That was terrible!" she moaned after finally swallowing. She was
already feeling sick; the woman didn't have to make her feel worse!

"Well never mind then!" said the Lady Mediev, apparently offended. "I'll
just take my leave. You're clearly over-tired, and need a good nap. And
you won't ever have to worry about seeing that boy again. From now on
you'll only meet boys that will treat you right."

Smiling condescendingly, she left the platter on the bedside, dimmed the
lights, and left the room.

Adelle got up and went over to the door. It was locked! Fuming, she
threw herself on the bed and imagined commanding *her* to jump into a
vat of acid.

Outside the room, the Lady Mediev turned from the locked door to see
James standing there patiently, awaiting her next command.

"Follow me." she said.

They walked through several hallways and into her study, a large and slightly more
rustic room than the rest of the Manor. The Lady sat down behind a desk while
James remained standing in front of her. But she had barely sat down
when James flung himself on the ground and lay there, gasping for
breath.

The Lady sighed. "I was afraid that was going to happen. I knew from the
moment I cast my spell that it was barely sticking and would fall off
any moment."

James lifted himself to one knee. He was not accustomed to being weak.
He couldn't remember a time where he had been weak. But here he was,
striving for any hint of energy he could muster.

The Lady drummed her fingers on the desk, looking at him curiously. "All
zombie children are enchanted. That's what separates them from
motionless bodies. Many of my powers are based upon tapping into that
enchantment. But this boy has another enchantment. One I have never seen
before."

Her eyes narrowed.

"I don't think I like it."

By now James was feeling nearly back to normal and was finally able to
stand. The Lady Mediev hardly seemed to pay him any attention, talking
more to herself than anyone else.

"This enchantment does have a certain flair, a signature you could say,
that I have seen before. A small part of me would like to study this new
enchantment and learn its nature and where it came from, but the rest of
me would rather just destroy the boy and move on to more important
matters."

Suddenly the doors burst open and Fugue was standing before
them. He was carrying a large musket and was loaded down with all sorts
of bombs, daggers, and other implements of war.

"Sorry lady," said Fugue. "But we're gettin' outta' here!"

The Lady prepared to envelop the plucky creature in a deadly spell, but
before she could finish, Fugue was dodging aside and Miss Bethany was
charging into the room like a mad rhino. The Lady cast a flurry of
spells at the seamstress turned nurse turned (?), but they simply
bounced off. The women collided. The Lady Mediev was sent flying through
the air and slammed into one of her bookcases, knocking from her both
wind and consciousness.

"What better way to take out a sorceress than a broad who doesn't
believe in such stuff?" said Fugue. "And they don't get much broader
than this gal!"

Miss Bethany looked at James sternly. "Do you know how to do anything
other than get yourself into trouble?"

"I've been trying to get someone out of trouble!" said James. "What are
you doing here?"

"She's catering refreshment to the Lady's guests." said Fugue. "She and
a bunch of dolls. I happened upon them in one of the hallways."

As if on cue, the four dolls skipped into the room. "It's that boy
again! Did you find the princess?"

"Yes. She's in this house."

"Wonderful! What are you going to do now?"

Fugue, who had poked his head out of the doorway and was peering down
each direction of the hall, hurriedly pulled back and slammed the door.
"Getting ourselves out of here!" he retorted. "The guards have finally
caught up with us!"

He threw open the window and surveyed the alley below. Earlier that
alley had been patrolled by several guards, but at the moment those
guards were trying to break down the door behind them.

"But what about Adelle?" James demanded. "We can't leave without her."

The pounding on the door grew louder. "Well, we certainly can't leave
with her." said Fugue. "Unless you can fight through a throng of heavily
armed half-men and ogres."

A faint moaning came from the direction of the Lady Mediev. She was
starting to come to. The occupants of the room couldn't see what was
happening in the hall, but the ogres (who were slower and had been near
the back of the pursuit) had finally managed to walk over the half-men
(who were at the front and were rather useless when it came to breaking
heavy objects). The door was promptly ripped off its hinges and hurled
across the room.

Miss Bethany took in the situation. "Here. I'll make this easy." She
grabbed James and Fugue and jumped through the window. Her feet landed solidly on
the alley with a cement-cracking thud. The dolls lightly dropped down
beside her (being practically weightless had its advantages).

In different circumstances there probably would have been several ogres
crashing through the walls, but they had fervent orders from the Lady
Mediev not to destroy her property (doors being a reasonable exception).
Within moments, the group had slipped into the dwindling crowds outside
the Manor and escaped.

* * *

After some time had passed, Adelle turned to look at the platter of
Jillybons. She hadn't noticed before, but they had little faces, and all
of them were looking at her.

"Eat Me!" each of them said, their chorus of voices hardly equaling a
whisper.

*Now that's unsettling,* thought Adelle. *I just ate something that
could be talking to me in my stomach!* They wiggled back and forth,
begging for her to eat them.

She watched them for quite some time. She *was* rather hungry. But that
Jillybon had tasted like, well, she didn't want to think about it.

*The most disgusting thing in the world!* She thought to herself, as she
reached over and grabbed one. *It's probably poison, really*, she
figured, as she put it in her mouth. *I'm positive that Mediev Lady is
trying to kill me. She clearly hates me!* She ate another. After a time,
she began to laugh a little. *Though he* was *very cute, for a zombie.
And I suppose I* was *over-reacting.* She ate another, and cradled her
head in her hands pensively. *I wonder exactly what it is that zombies
do to girls like me? Maybe it's not so bad ...*

She reached over to grab another, but her hand passed through air. She
looked over to find the platter empty. Where had they all gone? There
had been at least two dozen of them!

Adelle jumped off of the bed, careening with energy and a little dazed.
She needed more Jillybons! She raced over to the cupboard and tried to
open it, but it was locked. She put her ear against the cupboard door.
From inside she could just hear the faintest sound of several
high-pitched voices pleading to be eaten.

She had to get inside! Looking about her, she grabbed a small lamp and
began to slam its base into one of the cabinet's doors. After several
swings, the battered door caved in. Hurriedly, she pulled the pieces of
door out of the way and looked inside.

More Jillybons! She quickly set to work, swallowing one after another.
Every time she ate one, the little Jillybon would give a miniature shout
of joy. But before long, they too were gone. She still couldn't say that
she liked the taste, (they were frankly vile), but there was something
about these Jillybons that was beyond taste. It was a sensation she had
never experienced before.

She needed more!  She searched but there were no signs of additional Jillybon reserves anywhere in the room.  Adelle remembered the Lady Mediev saying that Jillybons were all the rave
in the City. Surely there were shops from which she could
find more. But the door was locked. She was trapped, just like she was
in the castle.

"I hate her!" Adelle whispered under her breath. *"We do too!"* she
thought she heard a chorus of Jillybons concurring from inside her stomach.
She turned to look at the window, and then at the bed. Well, she had
heard of it in stories. Why couldn't it work here ... She tore off all
of the covers, tied them together, fastening one end to the bedpost. So
far so good. Thankfully, the window wasn't locked. She opened it and
looked outside. By then the crowds had finally dispersed and the street
was deserted. After carefully tying the makeshift rope around her waist,
she lowered herself out the window and down onto the moonlit streets
below.

* * *

Mr. Mosspuddle had already been concerned the moment Fugue and James had
jumped from the rooftop and into the crowded street, but as time passed
and he still hadn't seen them return, he grew more and more anxious. The
raven told him not to worry, and had even taken a nap, but Mr.
Mosspuddle was not one to be so easily calmed.

Eventually James and Fugue did return. And with them were the four
dolls. (Miss Bethany had left in the direction of the Happy Little Inn.)

"You're safe!" said Mr. Mosspuddle. "I was so worried!"

"There's still reason to be worried." said James. "We found Adelle, but
we couldn't get her out. She's still in the Mediev Manor. She doesn't
look like she's in immediate danger, but it's not a good place. Once we
regroup we need to go back there."

"Yes, the sooner the better!" said Fugue. "There's more weapons I need
to get from that place! Especially this *huge* gun the ogres had
displayed in a back room. It was the most beautiful thing my eyes have
ever beheld! It had four sets of four barrels---*sixteen*
*barrels*---that revolve independently in some confusing manner that
doesn't make any sense but that doesn't matter because however it works,
it must unleash *utter chaos!* I have to have one! We need to find some
means to bring it with us! Maybe a cart. Or we could hypnotize an ogre
to carry it. Or a spell to give me ogre-sized muscles. That would help
in the wielding of it."

"Finding weapons is not our top priority." said James. "We're here to
rescue Adelle."

"Wait, wait, wait! You didn't see this gun! Once you see it, you'll
realize how much easier rescuing Adelle will be when we're on the
delivering end of it! I wish I knew what they called it! I can't keep
refer to it as 'that really big gun'. That just wouldn't do it justice.
It needs a *worthy* name. Well, since none are coming to me at the
moment, I'll just call it the Hexadecagun."

While Mr. Mosspuddle, James and Fugue discussed their options, the
raven's attention was drawn elsewhere: he was staring warily at the
dolls.

"Who are these people accompanying you?" he asked James.

"Dolls I met earlier in the city." said James. "They own a teashop. They
say they know Adelle, and want to help protect her. They've
invited us to stay at their inn."

"Dolls!" the raven exclaimed. "Don't you know *anything?* Talking dolls
are *evil!* They are minions of Jakob Damond! Next thing you know
they'll be brandishing knives and stabbing everything in sight!"

Mr. Mosspuddle hurried to their defense. "But I thought we'd already
established that Fugue is not an evil toy, but a servant of good.
Perhaps these fine ladies are as well!"

"That's right!" said Fugue. "Us toys can tell that sort of thing. I
don't see any puppet strings of the toymaker on these dolls."

"We are no minions of the toymaker!" said the swan. "We are Princess
Adelle's loyal playmates. We have enjoyed the presence of her company
since she came into this world. Ask her yourself! She will vouch for our
benevolence."

"Actually, that would be sort of tricky right now," said James. "But I
think most of us are willing to give you the benefit of the doubt."

"Hurray for crazy demos!" said Fugue.

"Fine." said the raven. "I'll give them some trust. Just please don't
let them get a hold of any sharp objects."

* * *

Ha! She was free once again! No stuck up old lady was going to keep Adelle
as her pet!

As she walked down the streets, Adelle could feel the Jillybons
wriggling about her insides. It tickled. She grabbed her stomach and
giggled. It was like having a bunch of friends playing with you even
though you were alone.

She felt she would die if she didn't get more Jillybons.

As with most nights in the City of Orphans, there were few people out of
doors. As Adelle wandered through the many twists and turns of the City,
it had never felt so magical. (This was in part to the effect of the
Jillybons.) Most of the people were attending parties at the various
clubs, bars, and larger residences. All of these places were well lit
and in full swing. But most of the shops were closed.

Adelle continued down one street after another. Every now and then
someone would pass her way, but she did not want to be seen, and that
desire was all it took for no one to notice her. At one point she passed
by a little teashop. It didn't sell any Jillybons, but inside there were
a number of quirky heroes discussing plans for rescuing a princess.

Adelle paused before a store window. There in the front was an
entire box of Jillybons on display. She put her face to the window. The
Jillybons were calling to her. (And I'm not speaking figuratively; they
were literally calling her name.) They pleaded and begged for her to eat them, and she hated not being
able to.

Her hand slipped through the glass. Startled, she pulled it back and
looked at her hand as though it were a foreign object. Her hand looked
perfectly fine and normal. Cautiously, she reached toward the window.
Her hand passed right through it, sending ripples across the face of the
glass. She was able to put the other hand through as well, and then her
head.

She paused to consider her new position. The Jillybons were right within
her reach. In the corner of her mind, a little voice cried that it would
be wrong to take them. But look! She had passed clean through the
window! A miracle!  It was meant to be!

She took the box of Jillybons. It passed through the window with her.
She wanted to sit on the curb and eat them right then, but another voice
inside her head (there were a lot of those in there at the moment) told
her the proper thing to do in such a situation is to scurry off to some dark corner and eat them in secret.

She was just about to do this when she discovered that she was standing
in front of the Lady Mediev.

"Well! I finally found you!" said the Lady.

Adelle was speechless. This was both because she was startled and
because her faculties of speech were presently impaired.

The Lady Mediev eyed the box of Jillybons in Adelle's hands. "What
mischief is this? I thought you didn't like Jillybons. Well, it is nice
that your tastes have matured, but you had better put that back.
Subjects tend to get uptight when they know their Ladies and Lords are
stealing from them."

Adelle still didn't say anything. She wasn't completely coherent. The Lady tried to magic the box back into the shop before remembering that such actions didn't work with Adelle. After
much coaxing, the Lady was able to persuade Adelle to
re-perform her window trick and return the Jillybons to their place in
the front display. When that was finished, the Lady took out her watch.

"Look at the time! If you thought it was past your bedtime before, now
it is really far gone! Next time you feel like escaping on a candy binge
it would be polite to check with me first."

The Lady's words were somewhat misleading. She had many enchantments
rigged inside Adelle's bedroom, and had known the moment of Adelle's
absence. Also, she could easily sense the various enchantments attached
to Adelle and had no problem tracking her. In short, the Lady Mediev
could have confronted Adelle at any time, and had only decided to wait as
long as she had.

Adelle's condition was worsening. She was far beyond exhaustion and
under the influence of about as many Jillybons as a little girl's
stomach can hold. She slumped to the curb in a dizzy stupor. The Lady
motioned to a half-man who was waiting in the shadows. The half-man
stepped forward and lifted the girl over his shoulder. Then he carried
her to a carriage that was waiting nearby and dropped her inside like a
sack of potatoes. Before long they were on their way back home through the moonlit streets.

* * *

Meanwhile in the Happy Little Inn, the band of heroes was continuing
their rescue plans.

"We need some means of getting closer to Adelle." said James. "We won't
be able to rescue her from this place if we can't get near her. Or maybe
if we can't free her right away, we can at least be close enough to
protect her."

"I don't think that's going to be very easy right now." said Fugue.
"Right now she seems to be a real hot item."

"Then we'll need to gather information about her routines.  See if there are any opportunities to rescue her."

"We know a great deal about the princess." said the dolls. "We pick up a lot of the
gossip around the City, and most of the gossip is about her these days."

James turned his attention to the dolls. "How frequently is Adelle by
herself?"

"Aside when she sleeps? Hardly ever. Between school and shopping and
parties the princess is constantly surrounded by people."

"And I'm sure when she's sleeping is when that place will be
the most guarded." said Fugue.

"Especially after your visit this
evening." said the raven.

James groaned.  Fugue tapped his head pensively. "Maybe if we could blend in with the
locals. Slip into the crowds around Adelle."

"Most of you are too cutesy to fit in with the local populace." said the
raven. "You stick out like sore noses."

After the discussions wound down without reaching any resolutions,
people started talking about heading to bed. Someone suggested they
should keep watch in case anything tried to break into the inn. The
dolls assured them that the building was perfectly safe, but no one
really trusted the dolls' confidence in their friendly neighborhood.
Fugue volunteered to perform the first shift.

------

As Fugue was sitting on the roof and enjoying the view of the twilit City,
the raven flew up and landed beside him all in a flurry.

"Curse you!" said the raven.

"What did I do now?" asked Fugue.

"I just received insight on some doom ahead of you."

"Well, you don't look too pleased about it. Does some hideous fate await
me?"

"No! It's all wrong! It's---it's, well, *happy!"*

"A happy doom?"

"Exactly! Doom isn't supposed to be happy! There's no such thing as
happy doom!"

"What's going to happen to me?"

"Who cares? It's *happy!* I can't be going about doling out *happy*
dooms to people! What kind of a Darke and Mysterious Raven would I be if
I did a thing like that?"

"I think it would be rather jolly. People would start liking you."

"People aren't supposed to like me! People are supposed to run away and
hide and beg not to hear what I have to give them! I am the messenger of
fate, the harbinger of doom. If people like the prophecies I bring them
they are insane!"

"It doesn't sound like the greatest way to make friends. Anyway, I thank
you for giving me this prophecy. I wonder what sort of happy doom awaits
me? I hope it involves a grand adventure!"

"Stop enjoying it! Prophecies of doom are not meant to be enjoyed!"

"Why not? Don't you ever have any prophecies for yourself?"

"Yes, of course. I'm not a hypocrite!"

"Well, name one."

"It was once prophesied that I would find myself in a stupid world full
of stupid people, talking about stupid prophecies to a stupid person.
That prophecy has now been fulfilled."

"Whoa. That's a trip!"

Meanwhile, downstairs James was checking in on Mr. Mosspuddle. The
librarian had left their discussions early to resume his reading of
Marloth.

"So what do you think of it so far?" James asked him.

The toad looked up from his reading; James had never seen him so happy.
"This book is beyond anything I could have imagined! It combines
hundreds of pieces of stories I have come across as if they were always
meant to be connected in this manner! And it relies heavily upon the
Theory of Dreams, a philosophy I have long wondered about."

"What's that?"

"The Theory of Dreams? It stipulates that the universe is comprised of
many dreams within dreams, each stacked atop the other. The root dream
is the most real one, and each progressive one is less and less real.
When a person is sleeping, he loses track of the world around him and is
living in a dream world. But when he awakes, he returns to the real
world. So is the case with this stack of dreams. Whenever one of those
dreams ends, the dream below it resumes."

The librarian halted and said, "I'm sorry, I could go on all night! How
were the talks? Did you come to any agreement on what to do about
Princess Adelle?"

"Nothing solid. But the discussion gave me an idea. I think I know how
we can keep an eye on Adelle ... "

* * *

The next morning Ivy awoke to find that Adelle was still asleep and would
not be coming with her to school but would instead arrive sometime later
that day.

Adelle did finally appear around an hour before noon. She staggered into
metageography class and sat down beside Ivy.

"You look terrible." whispered Ivy.

"I feel worse."

"What happened last night?"

"I don't want to talk about it."

"Then you're the only one here who isn't talking about it. Except of
course the professor and that new kid."

"What new kid?"

Ivy motioned across the room. "I don't know where he came from. No one
here recognizes him."

Adelle carelessly looked over and was suddenly jolted awake. Across the
room, distinctly spaced from any of the other students, sat James.

The first thing that struck Adelle was how differently he looked from
the other students. He did have that same pale complexion that so many
of the other students prized, but beyond that, no one within the school
had ever displayed so much contempt for their own appearance. How hadn't
she noticed it before? Now she gawked at his shabby clothes that were
slightly too large for his slight frame, his face and arms with their
characteristic smears of dirt, and his virgin hair that had never known
the touch of a comb.

"He's clearly from poorer society." Ivy continued. "Though he is kind of
cute."

"I know who he is." said Adelle quietly.

"Who?"

"I'll tell you after class."

At the end of the day's classes James entered the hallways in search of
Adelle. He was amazed at how mild the other zombie children were. He was
accustomed to the constant fighting and debauchery that normally
occurred in zombie child ranks. He figured high society school zombies
must be more genteel. He was wrong. It was actually Adelle's presence. As long as she was in the vicinity with her crown, the
zombie children conducted themselves as respectable nobles in the royal
court. They were still cruel and manipulative, but now they did so with
good manners.

He eventually found her along one of the halls in the company of her
usual friends. James approached the group cautiously. Very cautiously.
He knew that if they wanted they could easily tear him to pieces. As he
came within earshot he could hear them talking about Jakob Damond's Toye
Shoppe. Apparently it had just appeared in the City and was scheduled to
open its doors soon.

James tried to blend in with the fringe of the crowd, but the moment he
stepped near enough to be noticed everyone backed away and focused all
their attention on him. Any conversations abruptly
ceased except for whispering near the back of the crowd. Ivy stepped
forward and introduced herself. Then she asked him who he was.

"I'm James." said James.

"I've never seen you before." said Wendy. She looked at the other
children. "Has anyone ever seen this kid?"

There was much shaking of heads and answers to the negative. Adelle was
very quiet. Wendy turned back to James. "Doesn't look like anyone's seen
you before. That's a little strange."

"I used to work for Deadwick." said James.

"*Ohhh!* One of *Deadwick's* thugs. That would explain the rags."

Bobby stepped into the center of attention. "*I* work for Deadwick." he
reminded them calmly. Everyone seemed to suddenly grow smaller. After
several moments, Ivy turned to Adelle and did her best to break the
awkward silence.

"Anyhow, the gang is heading over to the Candy Castle for some
Jillybons. We'll catch you later."

"Wait, I want to come too!" said Adelle.

"Really? That's capital! I hate for you to be left out. We won't even
pressure you to eat one!"

"Actually, I'd love to have a few Jillybons." said Adelle.

James suddenly spoke. "Are you joking? Jillybons are parasites!
They'll suck the life out of you and drive you insane!"

Adelle looked at him in shock. "Nonsense! All the other children eat
Jillybons, and they're just fine!"

"All the other children are dead!"

Adelle couldn't stop herself from laughing. "You'd like that, wouldn't
you? If everyone was a zombie you'd be normal!"

Everyone, (except Osmand, who had no idea what was happening on any
level), discerned this to be a good time to laugh with her.

"Besides, I've never felt more alive and alert in my life!"

"Wait, you've already eaten some?"

"Not that it's any of your business, but yes, I have."

"They're inside you right now? We've got to do something!  You need medical attention!"

"Is this bloke giving you trouble?" Bobby asked Adelle. His posture was
very straight and at ease, yet it was clear that with one word he would
grab James and snap him like a twig.

Adelle looked at James with concern. He *was* making her extremely
uncomfortable, and he *was* a creature of undeath, and he *did* appear
to be stalking her, but for some reason she still couldn't bear the
thought of harming him. "No." she said at last. "He's not bothering me."

Some of the children made a few more witty comments about James and then
the group set off for the Candy Castle, leaving James in the empty
hallway.

James was fuming. What did he have to do to prove to this girl that he
was on her side? He had come all this way to rescue a princess who
didn't want his help; who didn't even see any danger. What was he
thinking? Why was he putting himself through all of this? And then her
new friends ... he didn't notice the personal remarks they made about
him, but the fact that she would put her trust in a group of zombie
children who would have no scruples in killing her, while she turned her
back on the only zombie child with a conscience; the injustice stabbed
at him like a dagger.

He debated about following after them, but he couldn't see any use. She had already eaten the Jillybons. She had already given herself
over to the other children's influence. Now all he could do was make things
worse. Even though he was better at reading books than reading people,
he had still noticed how uncomfortable he had made her, and that grieved
him. He didn't want to make things worse, yet as he
reflected on everything he had done since his arrival at the City, all
he had done was make things worse.

His actions wouldn't have resulted in so many problems if she had just trusted him. But why would she? He
*was* a zombie child. He *did* have desires to cause her harm. He would
never forget his reflection in the mirror. He would never forget what
his twisted heart was capable of. Who wouldn't flinch away from him?

He had originally planned to return to the Happy Little Inn after
school, but now he had no desire for it. Feeling as black as black can
be, he climbed up a nearby building and sat down on the roof, where he
untied his book bag and took out the only book he had in it, Marloth.
Then he opened it to a random page and began to read.

He read of how the good headmaster sacrificed his life to save his
children. The children didn't ask him to save them. They didn't want him
to. In fact, *they* were the ones who killed him. But he did it anyway
because he loved them.

James pondered this for a long time. Then he rose to his feet, returned
the book to its place in his satchel, and hurried back to the inn.

Once he had arrived and was in the main entryway, he located Mr.
Mosspuddle and said to him with much urgency, "Do you know anything
about Jillybons?"

"No. What are they?"

"They're a parasite that zombie children eat. Normally they do terrible
stuff to people but they don't hurt zombies.  I need to find a remedy."

"Hmm. Do these Jillybons take residence within the stomach or
intestines?"

"What? I don't know. I never ate them myself, I just saw the results of
living people who did ... "

"Have you tried fire berries? If these Jillybons do remain in the
digestive tract then fire berries should do the trick. Fire berries are
used to clean the stomach of all sorts of harmful things."

"Sounds good to me. Where can I find some?"

"Well, I'm sure some of the local shops carry them. You could probably
start there."

James grabbed a few items and headed for the door.

"So what's happening?" asked the dolls.

"I don't have much time to talk right now. I'm going out into the city
to look for some fire berries."

"Fire fairies? We know all about those! If you put one of them in a
lamp, it can provide light for an entire village! And have you ever
tried putting one in a pipe? Mr. Gingersmile did once, and it---"

"Berries, not fairies! *Fire berries!"*

"Fire berries? We know all about those too! They are used in some of the
most exciting teas! For example, the---"

"I don't have time for this! I need to find some fire berries as soon as
possible. It's for Adelle. It's very important that she gets them."

"For Princess Adelle?" said Mr. Mosspuddle. "Has she eaten these
Jillybon things?"

"Yes." said James. "Already they are probably hurting her, and she
doesn't even realize it."

"How dreadful!" said the dolls. "The princess must be saved! We will
help you find these fire berries!"

"Really?"

"We have much experience with shopping. We will scour
the city for these berries you seek!"

"And I will search for any more information about Jillybons." said Mr.
Mosspuddle.

"Thank you." James said to everyone. And then they set out.

* * *

James arrived back at the inn around the same time as the dolls. Mr.
Mosspuddle had already returned and had several new books he had
acquired which spoke of all manner of candies, including Jillybons. The
librarian was very eager to relate his findings to the others.

"These Jillybons definitely sound like a threat to Adelle's life. Even
without the devouring of vital nutrients, the way these creatures alter
one's judgment can alone be fatal. But the good news amidst my searching
is that they do reside in the stomach, so fire berries are definitely a
viable cure. Were you able to locate any?"

"No. Not a single one."

"And what about you?" he asked the dolls. "Have you found any fire
berries?"

"We have searched high and low and in between, yet we cannot find any
fire berries. Every shop is out of them."

"That's what I found too." said James. He turned to Mr. Mosspuddle. "Are
there any other places we could get fire berries?"

"Yes, there are, but none as practical. I know of fire berry groves,
wizard markets, and the wishing well of fruit, but it would take a long
journey to reach any of those places. Our next best option would be the
Library."

"I would like to buy a wizard." said Fugue.

"The Library has fire berries?" said James. "Why didn't you say that in
the first place? Let's go get them!"

Mr. Mosspuddle looked apprehensive. "It's not that simple. The wizards
will surely be antagonistic if any of us were to enter the Library. They
think I sealed all of the doorways, but one remains, though it is only
an entrance, not an exit. It would be a one-way trip into almost certain
danger."

"So what you're saying is if we used that doorway we wouldn't be able to
get back out?"

"Once inside the Library I would again have access to all of its books,
and should be able to use them to make a new doorway, but that would
take several days. I don't see any way that we could get the fire
berries and return here in time."

"What about the raven?" said Fugue, "He was telling me how he's flown
across all kinds of dimensions; maybe he could get the berries. Where is
he now?"

"Right behind you." said the raven. He was perched on a cabinet in the
corner of the room, and looking especially grumpy. "I was having a
marvelous nap until a group of clowns burst in and woke me up."

The raven was going to provide further beratement, but James immediately
began informing him of the situation. "Adelle is in trouble! She's eaten
this candy called Jillybons and she---"

"I already heard!" said the raven. "And no, I can't do it. Yes, I can
fly between dimensions, but there's rules to that, just as there's rules
to moving around the physical world. For one thing, I can't pass through
magical walls. If the wizards have the library sealed, then I would need
a special portal just like anybody else. And besides, even if I were to
phase into the library or any of those other fire berry locations, I can't
carry things with me when I do that. The berries would just fall out of
my beak. Now---if you don't mind---I'm going to get some sleep."

As the raven flew through the doorway in search of a more quiet part of
the inn, the dolls wrung their stubby limbs in concern. (Except for
Samantha, who was looking about for clowns.) Miss Perrywinkle was the
most distraught of the group, and was on the verge of shedding felt
tears. "Is Princess Adelle truly going to die?" she moaned. "Her life is
in danger and we have exhausted all our options!"

"No," said James. "We still have that one-way door Mr. Mosspuddle spoke
of. If we can't bring the fire berries to Adelle, we'll have to bring
Adelle to the fire berries."

"That might work," said Mr. Mosspuddle, "But we still haven't addressed
the problem of the wizards. Last I saw them they were very angry, and
more paranoid than ever about people laying hand on the Library. Now
there may be all sorts of invisible traps, or magical guardians, or even
a real live wizard ... or they might trust to the library being sealed
and not have done a thing; they are very stingy with resources. In
short, I won't know what to expect if we enter the Library."

James wasn't dissuaded. "If you don't know what to expect then there's
no way to prepare for it. We'll just deal with those problems when we face them. Right now, I need to get Adelle."

"But she didn't respond well to you the last time. How will now be any
different?"

"Desperate times call for desperate measures. So far I've been restrained.
Now I'll do whatever it takes to get her to that library."

"Cool!" said Fugue. "I want to be a part of that!"

The librarian wrung his hands nervously. "I don't like any of this." he
said quietly.

"Do you have a better idea?" James asked.

"No. I guess I don't."

"So are you with us on this?"

Mr. Mosspuddle hesitated. "Yes, I am. I will start work on opening the
entrance to the Library. But please, James, be careful."

"Of course I will." said James, as he grabbed his gear and started for
the door.

"And please be considerate of the princess." said Mr. Mosspuddle.
"However she may act, she is surely not herself right now."

"Don't worry." said James as he and Fugue stepped into the streets.

* * *

Deadwick was waiting impatiently at a street corner not far from the
Mediev Manor. He had scouts positioned all around the neighborhood and
it had been some time since any of them had reported back to him.
Something big was going down. He could feel it. He was about to set out
to check on his scouts when one of them came rushing around the corner
and nearly ran into him. Deadwick waited a moment for the zombie to
catch his breath, remembered that the creature had no any breath, and said
"Come on! Spit it out! What's happening?"

"I just came from the west side of the Mediev Manor!" the zombie gasped.
While he didn't have functioning lungs, heavy breathing did help pull
more energy from the distant zombie machine. "A boy and a dog creature
just slipped into the house."

"Really? Now *that's* interesting. Tell the other kids to tighten their
parameter around the house. And tell them I'll be in my spot on the west
side of the Manor."

"Got it." said the boy, and he ran back up the street.

* * *

James and Fugue carefully made their way through the halls of the Mediev
Manor. Fugue had already neutralized several guards. There didn't seem
to be any immediate obstacles between them and Adelle's room. Assuming
it still was Adelle's room. If she had been moved then things would
become a *little* more complicated. They reached the door to the
bedroom, which was locked, but that was easy to break. The intruders
slipped into the room and were rewarded to find that it was still
Adelle's place of residence.

Adelle looked so different than she had the day before. Instead of the
exquisite image of youthful energy, she looked pale and weak, laying on
her bed moaning. Though she seemed oblivious to her surroundings, she
was coherent enough to notice their arrival.

"What are you doing here?" Adelle asked feebly.

James tried to speak in as soft and encouraging a voice as he could
imagine. "We're here to help you. You're going to come with us to the
Great Library."

"I don't want to go anywhere. I've been feeling so tired lately."

"That's probably just the Jillybons eating all the good stuff in your
body." said Fugue absently.

Adelle giggled. "I'm nurturing them!"

Fugue, who had been moving from one window to another and keeping watch
over the surrounding neighborhood, turned and said, "There are more
groups of zombie children outside than there were when we were outside,
and they are definitely staking the place. And there's ogres and those
half-men entering the Manor from the street. I don't know how much time
we have before they find the guards missing."

James turned back to Adelle. "We need to get going!"

"But why? I just want to stay here and rest." and then she whispered "*I
think it's mourning sickness.*"

"No, it's not. It's the Jillybons draining the life out of you."

Adelle sat up and looked at James fiercely. "Don't talk about my babies
like that!"

James finally lost his cool. "We don't have time for this! I'm trying to
rescue you! Right now you have a parasitic candy inside of you and if we
don't kill it you will die!"

Adelle looked thoroughly frightened. She staggered to her feet so she
could move further away from James. "I'm their mother! I won't let
anyone harm them, and that includes you!"

"You're not their mother! You didn't make them! And that's not you
talking, it's the Jillybons doing everything they can to protect
themselves!"

Adelle began to tremble. "Stop saying terrible things like that! I'm
already feeling sick, and now you're making me anxious! You say you want
to help me but you keep making things worse!"

"Here," said Fugue, proffering her a glass. "This should calm your
nerves."

"Thank you!" said Adelle, taking the glass, "at least *someone* cares
about me." (casting a scornful look at James.)

She took a sip from the glass and fell to the floor unconscious.

"What did you give her?" James exclaimed.

Fugue shrugged. "Just a little something to make her more cooperative.
Nothing poisonous as far as I know."

"But now she's out cold! What are we going to do with her?"

"Oh, don't worry. I brought a sack."

* * *

The Lady Mediev was sitting calmly in the parlor with Phyllis and Loury
and a number of half-men when she suddenly jolted up as though she had
stepped on a nail.

"She has escaped!" shrieked the Lady. All of the half-men turned
to stare at her nervously. "You mean the girl?" One of them asked,
twisting his cap in his hand.

"Yes, the girl!" Already she had risen to her feet and was crossing the
room. "Summon the ogres and send them to the front streets. This is
going to become *very* complicated."

At the same moment, Deadwick was sitting in a second-story room with a
direct view of the Mediev Manor. He had one eye on the Manor and one eye
on the card game he was playing with several half-men. Suddenly the head
of one of his zombie children popped down from the top of the window.

"Two figures were just spotted moving along the rooftops! One of them
was carrying a large sack!"

Deadwick sprang to his feet and threw his cards on the table. "The game
is on!" he cried. He whipped out his gun, vaulted over the table, and
followed the zombie child out the window and onto the rooftops.

* * *

Fugue and James were leaping from roof to roof when the raven dropped
down and glided alongside them.

"Looks like half of the City is pursuing you right now." said the raven.

A bullet zinged past their heads and ricocheted off a nearby chimney.

"Tell me about it." said James.

The raven glanced back. "Who are those men in white coats chasing you?"

James didn't reply. Fugue just shrugged and said, "I think they want to
put James in the loony bin or something."

"Well good for them!"

Fugue looked back and gave a sudden cry of euphoria. On the streets
below, several ogres were riding a horseless carriage. On the back of
the carriage was mounted a ginormous Hexadecagun, and with this, one of
the ogres began to dismantle the rooftops the heroes were fleeing on.

"That is so cool!" Fugue shouted, as everything around him fell to
pieces. Several bullets tore through James' flesh and caused him to
momentarily stagger. He was not amused.

"We can't keep this up!" he groaned. He knew that if he took too much
damage the zombie enchantment would lose hold of him and he would return
to being a lifeless corpse, and he figured a similar rule applied to
Fugue as well. A dozen pursuers could have been eluded by a few sharp
turns, but there were far too many pursuers for that. They needed a more
drastic escape.

"The only way we'll be able to lose these people is through the portal
to the Library."

The raven ghosted as a flurry of bullets shot past him. "Right now? I
don't know if the toad is ready yet. Nobody said anything about you
hurrying back with an angry mob chasing you."

James ducked down as a zombie child lunged at him, missed, and fell into
the streets below. "Well sorry but now there is. Can you fly ahead and tell Mr.
Mosspuddle to hurry?"

"Certainly. I can tell him you once again climbed into more trouble than
a cesspit can fathom!"

The raven shot ahead and out of sight.

<img class="centered-image-scene-break" style="width: 70%;" src="file://src/assets/images/fairytale/ogre.png" alt=""/>

In the very center of the City of Orphans there was an open square, and
in the middle of this square, there was a well. At that moment a toad, a
raven, and a number of dolls were gathered around it.

"There, it is ready." said Mr. Mosspuddle, looking down the well.

"It doesn't look any different than it did a moment ago." said Miss
Perrywinkle. "Just as much black down there as ever. And I still don't
see any water. What kind of well doesn't have water?"

"Though there isn't any visible difference from here, the well has
changed." said the librarian. "It is now a doorway to the Great
Library."

"It had better be the library down there! I wouldn't go down if it was
still a regular well. The bottoms of wells are slimy and muddy!"

Mr. Mosspuddle considered her remarks and how, if someone had such an
aversion to wells, they probably would not be happy with the Great
Library either, but he decided not to say anything.

During this time, a sound had been slowly forming in the distance. It
had been barely audible at first, but it continued growing until now
there was no mistaking the noise of many individuals rushing toward
them. None of the individuals already at the well said anything about it, but
they were all apprehensively staring in the direction that the wall of
sound was charging from.

Then James and Fugue appeared over the top of one of the roofs and
wearily dropped down to the street level. Between them they were
carrying a large, lumpy sack.

"Please don't tell me that is the princess." said Mr. Mosspuddle as they
drew near.

"Okay, I won't." said Fugue.

Mr. Mosspuddle was about to say more when his attention was arrested by
the front line of pursuers as they appeared over the crest of the
surrounding buildings.

"Into the well!" he cried, and was the first to leap into its depths. As
more and more malicious creatures rushed into the square, it did not
take much coaxing to get the rest of the band throwing themselves down
the well as well.
