*Dear Sir,*

*It has come to my attention that you are still alive. I must say, that
is an impressive trick. You may think me worried that you have returned,
but you need not worry about me. From what I hear, you are hardly more
than a ghost. I am not afraid of ghosts.*

*You were right about one thing: everything did pass away. But that
turned out to be hardly a loss for me. With the passing of that
dimension I have gotten my book back. And now I have made copies. Your
death was in vain.*

*There have also been rumors of you wanting to end this world as well.
That simply will not do. I don't appreciate your obsession with
destroying worlds, and it is my duty to prevent you from destroying this
one.*

*Hoping you see reason,*

*Jakob Damond*

\*\*\*

Deep within the farthest reaches of the most devious of minds, there was
a room. It was a narrow, dingy room, with a tall ceiling and only the
faintest hint of light. Within this room, there was a little boy. He was
just waking up and wondering *what in the world was he doing there
again!*

He was not awake long when the door opened and in stepped a man he had
never seen before.

"Hello." said the man. "I am Doctor Norris. How are you feeling today,
James?"

"Dead." said James. "I'm dreaming, aren't I?"

"No, though you have been. You managed to escape the Asylum and were
found several days later in a ditch. You were oblivious to your
surroundings and muttering endless gibberish. My assistant has been
documenting much of what you spoke during your delirium. You certainly
have a fantastic imagination."

"What happened to Doctor Hurley?"

"After the debacle with his 'new miracle drug', your previous physician
was relieved from his post. Indefinitely."

"And what about the nurse? The one who assisted him?"

"Oh, her? She was fired." The man did not seem at all concerned about
this.

James glared at him. "What do you want with me?"

"Not much, really. I am going to document your condition and then leave
you alone. Since my assistant has already recorded what your unconscious
state is like, all that remains is to observe how you are when you are
awake."

The doctor pulled a book from his coat pocket and began to peruse it
curiously.

"So tell me, James, has anyone gone out of their way to preserve your
life?"

"Why do people keep asking me that?"

The doctor was starting to lose his calm. "You've asked enough questions
for the moment, James. Now it's time for me to ask a few questions. Has
anyone gone out of their way to preserve your life? Yes or no."

"My friends have my back, but no one has gone out of their way to keep
me alive that I know of. So no."

"Thank you. Next question: Who would you---"

"What is that book in your hand?"

"What, this? Oh, this is my assistant's notebook documenting your case."

James recognized the book. "No it isn't!" he cried. "It's from Jakob
Damond's Toye Shoppe! That's the book I wrote! It's *evil!* You have to
destroy it!"

"James, listen very carefully. This is my assistant's book. It is what
he's been using to take notes."

"No! I'd recognize that book anywhere! I can feel its taint! I can hear
it calling to me to write more in it!"

The doctor rose to his feet. "I think it would be best to resume these
questions at another time." he said, and left a fuming James behind him.

Outside the cell stood his assistant, who had been listening to the
conversation. The doctor sighed. "We need to quickly finish this case
and get away from it as soon as possible! It is astounding how this
boy's delusion is capable of sucking in everything around him and making
it part of the fantasy. This boy has ended too many careers, and mine
won't be one of them."

As they walked away, the assistant asked him why he asked the boy if
anyone had tried to preserve his life.

"I was trying to more precisely diagnose the type of psychosis he has.
When the mind has fragmented into multiple pieces, those pieces
sometimes become cognitive of their own illusory state. They become
aware that without both the delusion and the patient they will cease to
exist. Thus they become a parasite, trying not only to preserve the
delusion, but the delusion's owner as well."

"But this patient doesn't have any such pieces bent on protecting his
life?"

"There doesn't seem to be. Whatever this delusion is, it doesn't seem to
care about his life. It's almost as if James' delusion isn't dependent
upon James."

"But that can't be possible!"

"No, it can't. Yet I don't know any other way to account for these
circumstances. I don't like it. The sooner we leave this case behind us,
the better."

\*\*\*

With the departure of the doctor, the room was once again dark. As James
sat there, he noticed something different about the adjacent wall.
Despite the blackness of the room, there was a faint point of light
coming from beyond that wall. The light was slowly growing in size and
strength. When it grew bright enough to start adding illumination to the
room James jumped back in horror. Once again, the adjacent wall was a
giant mirror!

But then he discerned what the light was and his nerves relaxed. It was
a lantern, held by someone on the other side of the mirror. And that
someone was Fugue. He was walking toward the mirror. Following both
alongside and behind him were the raven, Mr. Mosspuddle, the dolls, and
Adelle. They reached the mirror and touched it curiously. James could
see them opening their mouths as though speaking to one another, but he
could not hear any sound.

After some deliberation, Fugue whipped out his firearm and blasted the
mirror into oblivion. James ducked as he was showered by bits of glass.
When he straightened, he saw his friends climbing down from the mirror.
The room quickly became very crowded.

"So this is where you live," said the raven. "It looks like the typical
bachelor pad."

"What's happening?" James asked them.

"We've just arrived to break you out of this place." Adelle replied
smugly. "Now it's *your* turn to be rescued!"

"But how did I get here?"

"Don't you remember?" said Mrs. Gingersmile. "You were apprehended by
the men in white coats!"

"No. I don't remember anything like that."

"They were at the train station." said Miss Perrywinkle.

"What train station? We haven't reached one yet."

"Yes we did. We reached it yesterday!"

"How come I don't remember any of that?"

Mr. Mosspuddle scratched his nonexistent chin in contemplation. "When
the men grabbed you they stuck you with a syringe and you passed out.
Maybe whatever they gave you damaged your already tenuous memory. What
is the last thing you remember?"

"Clearly? Leaving the Shoreside Inn. From there everything gets fuzzy."

"Then you missed a lot!" said Mrs. Gingersmile. "After we left the shore
we traveled to the nearest train station. It took us several days and we
had many adventures on the way. When we arrived at the station, we asked
about the city that we don't know its name, and they said they didn't
know of the train stopping at any such city. Then a group of men in
white coats appeared and started chasing us."

"And that's when I got the idea to let them capture you." said Fugue.

"That was your *idea*?"

"Yeah, I think I asked you first. Then I assisted you in getting
spotted, and they did the rest. Whatever the case, it was a better idea
than that silly train one."

"And how was that *better?*"

"Because once they captured you they took you to the Asylum."

"And how was that *better?*"

"Because the Asylum is in the city we've been looking for. The one with
the orphanage."

Understanding dawned upon James. The idea made a Fugueish sort of sense.
Sort of.

"Then how did *you* get here?" he asked them.

"Don't mind us," said Fugue as he blasted the lock from the door and it
swung open. "We're just in your head."

"I am most certainly *not.*" said Adelle indignantly, and then, "It's
dark out there."

Sure enough, it was just as dark outside the room as it had been within.

"While you all debate how one or the other of us got here, I'll be
scouting the area." said the raven, and he flew through the doorway.

Everyone continued to peer through the black doorway. It was very
foreboding.

"I'm going to close this ... " said Samantha as she pushed the door
closed. It didn't latch since there was a big hole where the latch had
been,

"It's too dark here." said Mrs. Gingersmile. "Do we have more lanterns?"

"I have another one." said Fugue.

"Then let us have it on at once!" said Mrs. Gingersmile.

Fugue lit the second lantern and handed it to her. She beamed happily
and the dolls began to make shadow puppets on the wall. Some time
passed, and then the raven returned, popping through the hole in the
door.

"I flew all over the building. It appears to be deserted; I didn't see a
single soul."

After some procedural debate and quips, they stepped out of the cell and
into the hallway beyond it. Both sides of the hall were lined with rows
of similar cells. Most of the doors to these were open. As they passed
one cell after another, each one proved empty. No people. No other
visible lights than the two lanterns they carried.

The swan peered into one of the empty cells. "There must be a lot of mad
people running around." she said.

"As if that's new." said the raven. "But wherever they went, none of
them are still here."

Fugue nodded. "With how easy it was for James and I to escape this
place, I figured those doctors were running out of patients."

Adelle spotted something smeared across the walls and stepped back in
revulsion. "What is that? Is that blood? It's all over the walls!"

James stepped closer and examined the nearest wall. "Yes, that is
definitely blood."

Mr. Mosspuddle rubbed his chin in further contemplation. "I wonder who
it belonged to? Did something attack the patients, or did the patients
escape and attack everyone else?"

"Oh, let's please not dwell on that!" said Samantha.

James pulled out one of his daggers. "Whatever the case, there is
definitely something dangerous around here, or at least there was. We'd
best assume it's still here. I'll take the front, and Fugue, you can
take the rear. Mr. Mosspuddle, if you have any books that could help us
in a fight, I suggest you have them ready."

"We can read too, you know." said Adelle.

"What do you mean?" asked Mr. Mosspuddle.

"You aren't the only one who can use those books. The dolls and I can
too."

"Yes, but books are very dangerous! If they aren't used properly
they---"

"I know that! You've already meticulously shown us how to use many of
them. I trust you weren't just doing that for fun."

The librarian sighed. Reaching into his bag, he pulled out a book.

"Do you remember me talking about this book?" he asked.

"Yes. It is one of the acclaimed Books of Nature. They are among the
most well written and easy to use books in print. This is the first
volume: Geology."

Mr. Mosspuddle was impressed. "Very good. The ease of this book makes it
well suited for beginners, and since it consumes physical energy instead
of magical energy, you won't need any additional power sources to use
it."

He searched through its contents until he came to a certain page and
then handed the book to Adelle. "I recommend this section on sedimentary
rock. It can be used to hurl rocks at high velocities. That will draw a
fair amount of energy from you, so pause between uses to check how
fatigued you are. If you push yourself too far you will lose
consciousness."

"And what about us?" said Samantha.

The librarian sighed again. "Can you actually read?"

"Of course we can!" said Miss Perrywinkle. "And watch your tone! I'm
probably older than you are, young man."

"I am neither young, nor a man," said Mr. Mosspuddle. "But I am
reasonable. The Book of Geology requires a fair amount of energy to use,
so you dolls can read along with Princess Adelle and supplement her flow
of energy with your own. I'm guessing you dolls don't have any physical
energy to bestow, but this book has a conversion table that can utilize
magical energy at a reduced rate. You'll find that in Appendix C."

"I don't need a book." said the swan. "I will scout ahead with the
raven."

They continued on their way. As they crept through the halls of the
Asylum, James was haunted by repeated glimpses of what looked like a
book on the ground, but every time he drew closer there would be nothing
there. He was not sure what book he thought he was seeing, but he had an
uneasy suspicion that it was a writing book from Jakob Damond's Toye
Shoppe.

Eventually they reached the main doorway and stepped out into the city.
It looked as desolate and forsaken as the Asylum. There didn't appear to
have been a fire, and yet all the buildings had an ashen tone as though
all the color had been burned out of them."

"Funny," said the raven. "I don't remember bringing any doom to this
place."

James looked down one street and then another. "I've only been here
once, and it was all a blur then. Now it's a blurred blur. Some parts of
this city I think I can still remember, but not this one. If we explore
a bit we should come across a street I'm familiar with."

So they set off, heading down one random avenue after another. As they
were traversing the deserted streets Adelle looked like she was debating
inwardly about something, and then finally she drew closer to James and
said to him, "So you don't remember anything from the past few days?"

"No ... well, not much."

Adelle weighed this for a moment. "Do you remember anything between you
and me?"

"No. Should I?"

"No---no!" said Adelle, quickly looking away. "It's no big deal. Nothing
worth remembering," though her face contradicted her words.

After wandering about the city for some time, James stopped in the
middle of an intersection.

"This corner looks familiar." said James. "But I'm turned around. I'm
not sure which way is which."

As James wracked his brains and the others waited for inspiration to
strike him (like a brick), a ragged-looking man appeared on the scene.
He was the first sign of life (aside for their own lively selves) that
they had seen in that city. The clothes on his wiry frame were tattered
and singed. He stood some distance from them and stared at them
strangely until someone in the party called out to him, at which point
he walked toward them with a hunched, writhing gait.

"Strangers. Strangers. Probably dangerous," the man muttered to himself,
though he didn't look afraid of them.

"What happened here?" Mr. Mosspuddle asked him.

"I sees things. All kinds of things."

"Yes." said the raven. "Haven't we all. But did you see what happened to
this city?"

"I saw you two!" said the man, motioning between James and Adelle. "You
were walkin' this 'ere way some weeks ago."

Adelle looked startled. "I'm sorry, but you must have me mistaken for
someone else. I've never been here before."

"'Twas you! 'Twas you! There's no question o' that! 'Twas the dead o'
night and I sees you two passin' by!"

Mr. Mosspuddle looked at Adelle curiously. "Is that possible?" he asked.

"Of course not! This man is clearly mad or inebriated, or both! Why
would you---"

"Did we have a crown and a book?" James asked the man.

The man scratched his head for a moment, and then shook it. "No. I don'
recall you havin' such things."

"And which way were we going?"

The man pointed up the street.

"Thank you." said James and then, pointing in the opposite direction, he
said. "We go that way."

He set off down the street and the rest soon followed, though the swan
turned back and asked the man if he would accompany them. The man
adamantly refused and said he was going anywhere but that direction, and
that he needed to find his work. (He had once been a carpenter.)
Reluctantly the band of adventurers left him behind.

The further they progressed down the road, the more confident James
became that they were going the right way. As they continued, the raven
swooped down and glanced around them uneasily.

"There is something out there." said the raven. "Many things. But they
are eluding me."

The dolls shivered.

"Maybe we should have questioned that gentleman more," said Mr.
Mosspuddle, though none of them had really wanted to speak with him
longer than they had.

Suddenly there came a warlike squeal and out of the shadows jumped
several little humanoid creatures armed with a variety of primitive
weapons.

James and Fugue were the first to react and quickly engaged them in
combat. The creatures swore the most vile profanities but, thankfully
for the females, their high pitched little voices were practically
unintelligible. Their attack was fierce, but James and Fugue managed to
deflect their blows and deliver several of their own. After receiving
several injuries, the things turned around and disappeared back into the
shadows.

"Good heavens! What were those little devils?" said Miss Perrywinkle,
once they were gone.

"Goblikins." said Fugue, wiping his sword on the ground. "They're like
goblins but smaller."

Mr. Mosspuddle turned toward the raven. "Well, it looks like we found
your mystery creatures."

The raven shook his head. "Those weren't what I was sensing. If I had
caught a glimpse of a goblikin moving around, I would have known it was
a goblikin."

"Well thankfully no one was hurt." said the swan.

Fugue was perplexed. "Goblikins are cowards, not formidable fighters. I
don't know why they attacked us. They looked afraid of us before we even
met swords."

"I don't think we're going to find out anything more standing here,"
said James. "It's almost nighttime. We need to keep moving."

Night was approaching quickly. There were no stars or moon visible, nor
were there any streetlights or any other form of city light. It looked
like it was going to be a very dark night.

Finally, they came to the waterway alongside which the orphanage had
been built. As they drew near, James grew increasingly excited and ran
toward the gates that stood before the property.

But James was soon disappointed. The front gates were the only part that
still stood. Where James had expected to find the orphanage there was
instead an empty plot of land. Empty, that is, except for staggered rows
of tombstones. James was dumbfounded.

"I don't understand! The orphanage should be right here! Everything else
around it looks just the same!"

"It looks like a graveyard to me." said Mrs. Gingersmile.

"Well it wasn't! I don't know where those things came from, but they
didn't use to be here!"

The raven dropped down into the middle of the graveyard and looked about
curiously. "Most of these graves are empty. Looks like they've been dug
up."

The others entered the graveyard as well. In the middle of the lot there
was a weathered looking monument made from stone and marble. Adelle
stopped in front of this and examined it curiously.

"This bears resemblance to the work of craftsmen that have served my
family for generations," she said. "Castle Elington is full of artwork
just like it." She stepped closer to a plaque on the monument and tried
to make out the inscription, but it was nearly illegible.

The others began to look at each other nervously.

"Well, whatever this place is, it's not the orphanage," said Mr.
Mosspuddle. "Perhaps it is somewhere else around this city."

"This was where it was!" said James.

"Either way, it's not here now and this is definitely not a safe place
to tarry."

"Just one minute ... " said Adelle. "I'm trying to read this
inscription. I think this is a royal tomb."

Mr. Mosspuddle grabbed her arm. "We need to keep moving."

"Wait! I can just make it out. It says ... "

And then she gasped. Everyone turned around to look at her. She fell
backwards and began to quiver.

"My parents!" she shrieked hysterically. "Those are my parents!"

Mr. Mosspuddle hurried to smooth things over. "Surely there must be some
mistake. You're parents are in fine health, and whenever they do pass
away they won't be buried in the middle of an unknown city like this."

"But this tombstone, it looks so authentic! It even has the royal seal
perfectly carved into its surface!"

"It's probably an illusion." said the librarian.

"Your parents are dead." said the raven. "We already knew it."

"Don't say that!" said Mr. Mosspuddle.

"But it's true!" said the raven. "We can't all stand around here
pretending we didn't know! We did!"

"*What?"* said Adelle, looking about ready to fall to pieces.

"Don't listen to him!" said Mr. Mosspuddle. "He's just trying to be
spiteful!"

Adelle stopped listening to any of them. She simply curled up and grew
very quiet. As the rest of the group considered what to do next, their
attention was diverted by a sudden cry from down the street. It was hard
to tell if it was an expression of anguish or perverted glee.

"What was that?" asked a nervous Mrs. Gingersmile.

"Trouble." said Fugue. "We need to get going."

"But what about the orphanage?" said James.

"What about it?" said the raven. "Do you want us to remain here longer
and ensure that there isn't an orphanage hiding behind one of these
tombstones? It's not here! Can you admit that?"

"*Yes!"* said James. "I *do* see it! It's just that my memory seemed so
clear about this. My mind's rarely clear about anything, it felt special
to have such a vivid memory. I don't understand how I got it wrong."

"Maybe your memory isn't wrong," said Mr. Mosspuddle. "Maybe the
orphanage burned to the ground. Maybe they replaced it with a
graveyard."

Samantha gasped. "Maybe these are the graves of all the orphans! Maybe
this graveyard is haunted!"

"Maybe we should do less speculating and more moving somewhere that
isn't here." said the raven."

"How about this," said James. "I could climb up the nearest building and
get a better view of what's happening. Maybe all of this will make more
sense from a different angle."

"It's worth a try," said Fugue. "I say we all go up."

"Agreed!" said Miss Perrywinkle. "This graveyard makes my cloth crawl!"

It was as they were starting to leave that Mr. Mosspuddle noticed
Adelle. She was crouched in front of the tomb with the book of Geology
open on her knees. She was not reading about sedimentary rock. She was
reading a much more advanced passage about mining and tunnels and the
excavation of earth. Suddenly, the ground began to shake, until the
stone slab in front of the tombstone erupted in waves of dirt as though
the ground was being rapidly dug up from the inside out. Within moments
the motion subsided, leaving a gaping hole. Adelle discarded the book
and dropped out of sight.

The others were frozen in place, not knowing what to do. Mr. Mosspuddle
was the most astonished. His gaze was fixed on the book lying on the
edge of the hole. James was the first to gather himself. Without a word,
he dropped in after her.

At the bottom of the hole, James found Adelle kneeling beside a coffin
so large it could house multiple people. She was trying to raise the lid
but she was so fatigued from the immense use of magic that she was
unable to lift it. She looked up at James with tears in her eyes.

"Did you know? *Do* you know? Who is it? Who is inside this coffin?"

James hesitated, and then he gripped the lid and threw it aside. Inside
the coffin were two decomposing bodies. On the left was that of a woman,
mangled and disfigured nearly beyond recognition. On the right was the
corpse of a man so full of incisions and holes that it truly was beyond
recognition.

Adelle broke down. She fell back against one side of the hole, sobbing
and screaming and repeating over and over, "It's them! It's them!"

Her grieving was soon interrupted by cries from above. Samantha poked
her head over the edge of the hole and shouted down to them, "Goblikins!
They're back! Just thought I'd let you know." James wasted no time in
grabbing hold of Adelle and pulling her out of the grave.

Goblikins were surrounding the graveyard. They were making a fierce
display, hopping about and waving their little weapons, but most of them
were not brave enough or frenzied enough for a full-on attack.

Adelle didn't want to deal with this right now. She just wanted to curl
up in a ball and cry. But somehow she managed to lift herself to her
feet.

Suddenly a handful of the goblikins charged forward, running past Fugue
and focusing their attack on Mrs. Gingersmile. Fugue and James jumped
back to protect the doll, but they were not able to intercept all of the
attackers. One of the goblikins made it to the doll and dove at the lamp
she was holding, knocking it from her hand just before James ran the
creature through with his knife. Two more goblikins charged Mr.
Mosspuddle, who barely had enough time to read his book and send the
creatures flying backwards through the air.

"What are they trying to do?" James wondered aloud.

In his haste to banish the goblikins, the librarian had dropped his
lamp. Fugue looked at the lamp resting on the ground. Understanding
dawned upon him.

"There's shades out there!" Fugue shouted. "The goblikins are working
with them!"

James looked out into the darkness fearfully. "What are you talking
about?"

Fugue began to charge one side of the wall of goblikins. "Quick! We have
to get out of here!" The heroes had no choice but to follow Fugue as he
slashed a hole through the goblikins' ranks. The cowardly creatures
scattered before his wild attack, but soon regrouped and gave chase to
the fleeing adventurers.

"What is going on?" Mr. Mosspuddle called ahead.

"The goblikins are gunning for our lights!" said Fugue. "It's the
classic arrangement. Shades get some weaker creatures to take out the
lights, and then the shades swoop in."

They turned a corner and ran into another group of goblikins.

"Take the alley to your right!" the raven called to them from above, and
they quickly followed his lead.

"What are shades?" asked one of the dolls.

"Creatures of pure darkness. Shades are nearly impossible to kill with
physical weapons. Light is their main weakness. Faint light aggravates
them, stronger light hurts them, and bright light kills them."

"There's more goblikins coming toward you from the front!" the raven
warned them.

James frantically looked around them. "In here!" he shouted as he kicked
open a door alongside the alley. The group hurried inside and slammed
the door behind them.

They found themselves in a small bedroom. Fugue rushed to the next door,
opened it, and led them deeper into the house. As they hurried through,
they could hear the sounds of shattering windows pursuing them from
other regions of the building.

"They're coming up behind us!" said Mrs. Gingersmile.

"Keep going." said Fugue, as he slipped back to guard the rear. James
and Mr. Mosspuddle led the front of the group while the females were in
the middle.

They came out of a long hallway and into another room when Mr.
Mosspuddle was suddenly tripped by an unseen goblikin. He crashed to the
floor and the lamp he was carrying shattered. The only other lanterns
were being carried by Mrs. Gingersmile and Adelle near the back of the
line. Two more goblikins dropped down from their hiding places and shut
the door to the room, cutting the party in half and sending the room
into complete darkness.

Darkness! They had to do something fast! James tried to think. The
lantern was broken. There had to be flammable liquid on the floor. He
reached into his pack and took out a matchbook. He quickly lit one of
the matches and threw it toward where he figured the middle of the room
was.

The floor burst into flame and the room was filled with light. For a
brief moment James saw four shadowy figures before they dissolved into
nothingness. At the same time, Mr. Mosspuddle's clothes caught on fire,
but with James' help the flames were extinguished before any harm could
be done.

The door behind them burst open and the rest of the party appeared,
sending the goblikins fleeing through various holes in the walls and
windows.

"What happened?" said Fugue. "Are you all right?"

"We're fine." said James. "Let's keep moving."

They hurried through the front door and back into the streets. One of
the two remaining lamps changed hands from Mrs. Gingersmile to Mr.
Mosspuddle.

"This way!" the raven called to them, and they ran after him.

As the group rushed down one street after another, they drew near a
darkened corner where several shades were preparing a bomb. This was not
a bomb of metal, but of magic; a device that would extinguish every
light within throwing distance. Shades cannot create such things, so it
was probably some device they had stolen from a wizard. As they were
intently listening to the approaching heroes, the shades did not notice
a creature sneak up behind them and deposit a bomb of its own. They did
notice when the creature scurried away, but by then it was too late.
Windows shattered and bricks crumbled as the street was consumed in a
ball of light.

The heroes came to an abrupt halt. The street to their left had just
exploded.

"What was that?" cried several people at once.

"I can't tell from here," said the raven, "But let's go this way
instead."

After following him up and down several streets, they came to a long
avenue at the end of which was the train station. They made a dash for
the station, but as they did so goblikins began leaping out at them from
the surrounding buildings.

"Make sure your lights are protecting each other!" said the raven.
"There are shades just beyond the range of your lamps."

But that was easier said than done. The goblikins were growing
desperate. James and Fugue were having to divert all of their attention
to fending off the goblikins, but no longer were the goblikins
retreating like they had before. One of the goblikins reached Adelle and
began to stab at her with a little spear. She barely managed to dodge
the attack, but in doing so the lamp she was holding was swung about at
such an angle that her torso cast a shadow over the back of the party.
There was still just enough light in that region to make out a
pitch-black figure suddenly flying toward them. Adelle screamed for the
dolls to look out. The figure stretched out a long scythelike limb and
swung at them. The dolls dodged out of the way but Samantha wasn't fast
enough. Her torso was sliced in half.

"Ow! My body!" Samantha moaned.

The moment Adelle was able to, she swung the lamp around and aimed it at
the dolls. There was a hideous shriek and the shade was thrown backward
as though hit by a cannon ball. Samantha's two halves were quickly
gathered up and after much more struggle, the band finally reached the
train station.

"Tickets, please." said the steward. The raven had already procured
tickets, and gave them to the steward. The gates opened and the party
hastened through. The goblikins tried to follow after them, but the
gates had already closed.

"Tickets, please." said the steward. The goblikins were at a loss.

A monkey handed him a ticket and scurried onto the train.

\*\*\*

The first stage of their train ride was very quiet. The band of weary
adventurers had found an empty car near the back of the train, and there
they were tending their wounds and regaining their wits. Adelle sat in
one corner of the car, struggling to channel her concentration into
repairing Samantha. She didn't want to do it. She didn't want to do
anything. She felt so empty, she wished she could just lean back and let
emptiness submerge her. But she continued with her work, and once she
finished sewing Samantha back into one piece, she had her wish.

"Thank you!" said the doll, hopping up and looking at the seam around
her middle. "But I do have a considerable scar now. Oh well, if anyone
asks I'll just say I had a C-section."

Adelle didn't hear her; she had already sunk back into her seat and was
looking through the window vacantly.

James sat on the other side of the car where the rest of the party was.
He was very disappointed about not finding the orphanage. He had thought
they were so close. He had thought they would be in the orphanage at
that very moment. But then he looked over at Adelle and his
discouragement paled compared to what she had to be going through. He
could still cling to a hope that they would find the orphanage, but
there didn't seem to be any hope that her parents would come to back
life, except possibly as bloodthirsty zombies.

James rose from his seat and walked over to where she was sitting. She
didn't seem to have noticed him. He gathered his courage and said to
her, "I know how you must feel. If it's any consolation, Mr.
Tralvorkemen---"

Adelle suddenly turned on him angrily. "You don't know how I feel! No
one does! Everyone else in this world is either stuck up adults,
lifeless zombies, or fairytale creatures with two-dimensional
personalities! I feel more alone than ever."

James shrank back and returned to the other side of the car. Adelle
could see the hurt in his face and hated herself for it, but she felt
powerless to make anything right. Powerless to be nice or sweet or
pretty or any of the things people were always expecting from her. All
of the hardship, all of the horrors of the past several days seemed to
be converging on her all at once. And one thought rose to the top of
them.

"I'm an orphan." she whispered breathlessly.

The rest of the group watched her with growing concern. Even the raven
looked sobered by her condition.

"Adelle looks very tired." said Miss Perrywinkle.

"Tired?" said Mr. Mosspuddle. "She should be in a coma! Did you see the
spell she cast to excavate that tomb? She couldn't have spent more than
a few minutes preparing it. I myself am not capable of that level of
magic, and a veteran wizard would have devoted at least half an hour to
perform such a feat. She must have an unnatural store of energy to
channel, and remarkable intuition to execute such complexity without any
practice."

"Then she must be really good at magic!"

"Yes," said the librarian. "She must be." He did not say all he was
thinking. Why so many people wanted to control her was starting to make
more sense. He had no idea what was the source of her power, or the
depth of it, or if she knew herself, and he hoped she didn't. Mr.
Mosspuddle was still concerned for Adelle, but no longer in quite the
same way. He hated to admit it, but he could no longer look over at the
trembling little girl on the other side of the cab without feeling a
tinge of fear.

"Adelle has been surrounded by so much unpleasantness," said the swan.
"She needs something to take her mind off of all the ugly things.
Something fun and happy."

"She should go to the ball!" said Samantha.

"Yeah, that would be fun and happy," said the raven. "If your idea of
fun and happy is getting tortured and killed by undead children! We
already had this conversation! The ball is in the Globe, and the Globe
is in the City of Orphans. That's the last place in Marloth we are ever
going to take her."

There was a pause, and then Mr. Mosspuddle spoke up. "Is it really less
safe than anywhere else we've been? We keep imagining that the next turn
will be safer than the last, only to discover all new dangers. If the
entire world is truly seeking her harm, perhaps the safest place to be
would be the last place they would look."

James frowned. "I could see sneaking her into the City and keeping her
hidden. The most dangerous of our pursuers probably aren't even in the
City at this point---they are out on the hunt. But the ball is a
different matter. The Globe will be swarming with zombie children. We
can't possibly hide her from that!"

"She could wear a disguise," suggested the swan.

"That just might work!" said Fugue, turning to James "After all, you
said you can't sense her presence anymore, so I bet they can't either!"

"How would we disguise her? By now she has the most well known face in
Marloth!"

"I can take care of that," said Fugue. "I am the master of disguise!"

"Really?" said Samantha.

"Didn't you know?" said the raven. "He's actually a dwarf."

Fugue scrutinized Adelle with the eye of a trained
whatever-he-thought-he-was. "With the right makeup, hair dye, and some
of my secret techniques, I could make her look like any other zombie
girl. Her own mother wouldn't recognize her. Whoops!" (This was from
Miss Perrywinkle kicking him in the shin.)

James wasn't convinced. "I still don't like it. If something went wrong
we wouldn't be there to protect her."

"Well of course at least one of us would accompany her."

James did not yet see where this was going. "But I don't think any of us
could go to the ball without being spotted."

"You could go."

"No, I couldn't. There have been too many times where I have fought for
Adelle in public sight."

"Yeah, that's not really a problem. Nobody ever notices you."

James didn't know how to respond to that.

"Besides, if you're that worried, you could put on a fake beard or
something."

"A what?"

"He doesn't need a beard." said the raven. "If you were to take a bath
and put on a new set of clothes, not even we would recognize you."

It was decided that since James was the one who would be accompanying
her, he would be the one to present the scheme to her. Adelle's heart
was instantly warmed at the thought of the ball, especially after giving
up all hope of it, though one detail did bother her.

"A disguise? But it wouldn't be the same! If I go in disguise then no
one will know who I am. That's part of the thrill of going to a ball!
Being known. Having friends. Being popular."

"Being *popular?*"

"Don't say that like it's a bad thing! There's nothing wrong with being
liked. Before you dragged me down this rabbit hole, I was held in high
esteem by most everyone. Isn't that worth something?"

"I'll never know." said James.

Adelle looked at the grimy little mad boy and suddenly felt ashamed. Few
people knew James, and few of those liked him. "I'm sorry. The ball
would still mean a lot to me even with a disguise."

"That's good." said James.

Adelle smiled. "And besides, you'll know who I am. That's what matters
most."

That went right over James' head.

\*\*\*

As the days passed and the public frenzy to know Princess Adelle's
whereabouts increased, so did Ivy's jealousy. And her outspokenness. The
Lady watched this development in her daughter with interest. The more
she observed Ivy's bitterness toward Adelle and turned it over in her
own mind, all of her maternal instincts rose to the occasion (and the
surface). She recognized this growing bitterness in her daughter as an
object of considerable potential and so began to carefully nurture it.

When the time of the ball drew near and the Lady Mediev felt that the
fruit was ripe for the picking, she informed Ivy that she had strong
reason to believe that Adelle would be returning to the City, and early
enough to attend the ball. This cast Ivy into a wretched mood.

"That *would* happen, wouldn't it? Just when I thought she couldn't take
anything more from me, she takes the ball from me too! I hate my life!"

"Is that any way for a Mediev to talk? Have I taught you nothing? You
don't have to be the victim here. So far you've been playing by her
rules. It's time you started playing by mine."

"What do you mean?"

"I have a plan. A plan that, if you play along, will reverse your
respective positions and leave Adelle carrying all the jealousy she left
you to bear."

\*\*\*

The band of adventurers arrived in the City on the eve of the ball. At
the train station, Mr. Mosspuddle procured a coach as a discreet and
expedient method of traveling to the Happy Little Inn. It was a tight
fit, but the entire group managed to pile into the cab. Adelle looked
out through the coach window at the buildings and streets that passed
by. She found it strange that even though she had not resided in the
City for long, it held so many memories for her, and even though it had
not been long since she had disappeared from its view, it felt like
years since she had last been there. She was also surprised that the
longing to return had greatly diminished from the time she had first
found herself in the library. Returning to the City in time for the ball
didn't make her as happy as she had thought it would. She didn't know if
she would ever be happy again.

They arrived at the Inn without incident. There they were gruffly
greeted by Miss Bethany. Adelle had mixed feelings about being reunited
with her old nurse. Once again, the dolls provided the group with food
and lodging, though the dolls were very tired and quickly went to bed
after dinner, and the rest of the group soon followed. Except Mr.
Mosspuddle. He stayed up through the night pouring through Marloth,
trying to discover the location of the orphanage.

The next morning Adelle descended to the main room to find Miss Bethany
busy preparing breakfast. From a booth in the corner of the room came
the faint sound of snoring where Mr. Mosspuddle was slumped forward with
his head propped on his books. Adelle felt out of place and was about to
return upstairs when Miss Bethany said something to her, and before
Adelle realized it she was in the midst of an earnest conversation with
the seamstress.

Miss Bethany was a simple, straightforward person. She did not often
speak, but when she did, she spoke her mind. As Adelle gushed all of the
events and emotions she had experienced since she had left the castle,
she was surprised at how consoling Miss Bethany's remarks were to her.
Miss Bethany was not easily distracted by extraneous details, and had a
way of presenting things in a manner that was both simple and obvious.
Adelle had never been able to see it before, but for the first time she
realized that Miss Bethany really did care for her, even if it was in a
subdued fashion. Before long, Adelle found herself working alongside the
woman in preparing breakfast.

When Adelle reached the part of her story where she had discovered the
tomb of her parents, she found it particularly hard to proceed.

"Now I'll never know if my parent's loved me." she said.

"Of course your parents loved you! There's no question about that. Sure,
their love wasn't perfect. Sure, they loved other things that they
probably shouldn't have, but don't throw the princess out with the bath
water!"A maxim she had learned from experience.

Adelle said that she was encouraged by this, but that it still wasn't
the same as hearing it from her parents. Or even seeing them again. She
would never see them again.

"I'm an orphan." Adelle sighed.

"Look, missy, I'm an orphan too. Never knew my parents. Don't know what
they thought of me. But there is someone who does care for me, and for
you too. Someone who cares for you more than your parents ever could.
One day he will come back, and then you'll see for yourself."

For a moment Miss Bethany almost looked distant. "I've been waiting my
entire life for that day."

They talked for some time more. By the time the rest of the company came
downstairs, and the toad was awakened, and everyone was sitting down to
breakfast, Adelle was feeling very encouraged. She was beginning to
imagine that she could be happy again. Perhaps she could even enjoy the
Ball. The meal itself was the most elaborate they had eaten so far
during their journey. Miss Bethany was a marvelous cook, and provided a
very well rounded selection of dishes for the hungry adventurers.

After breakfast many of the group set to work creating a proper disguise
for Adelle. They wanted it to be both attractive and yet different
enough from her natural appearance to protect her from detection.

After much of the morning passed by, Adelle finally stepped out into the
main room modeling her new look. Everyone agreed it was stunning. Along
with a new dress, her hair had been dyed black and her face made up in a
way that, while maintaining her natural beauty, did change her identity.
Now she looked like a very pretty zombie child. Adelle was very pleased
with the feedback both her dress and disguise received, and then she
glanced over at James.

"You do have another change of clothes, don't you?"

"No."

"Then you'll have to get one."

"But I like my clothes! We've been through a lot together."

"I'm happy for the both of you, but you can't go to a ball looking like
that!"

"Why not? Are there magical traps? Will lasers shoot out and obliterate
me?"

The dispute would have escalated except the librarian pulled James aside
and did his best to explain how much it would mean to Adelle if he made
this concession for her, and after much convincing, James finally
agreed, though he did not pretend to understand.

At this point Mr. Mosspuddle longed to return to his studying, but he
felt a nagging fear that he was the only person in the group who could
properly assist James in a young man's proper attire. After much inner
debate, he found himself volunteering to take James shopping. The ladies
thought that was a splendid idea, and so before either of them knew it,
James and Mr. Mosspuddle were scouring the streets for a suitable suit.
What they both hoped would be a short affair turned into a major ordeal.
After a few hours passed, Mr. Mosspuddle concluded that James was
cursed. Nothing seemed to fit him. Nothing seemed to look right. Good
clothes simply fled from his presence. But as the sun began to wane and
all hope was nearly lost, they happened upon a set of clothes that had
both the right taste and right dimensions. It was also far more
expensive than anything Mr. Mosspuddle had considered paying, but by
then he was desperate, and handed over his money as though he was not
long for this world. With their prize in hand, they made haste for the
inn.

The price of time and money was not in vain. When James finally stepped
into the central room of the inn after washing and putting on his new
clothes, the group was amazed. In a way he looked very different, and in
a way he looked just the same. Mr. Mosspuddle had managed to find
clothes that were similar to what James had already been wearing before,
but aside for being new, they were subtly more slick and stylish. He was
still the same rag-tag James, but now it was an idealized, poster
perfect rag-tag.

Adelle was speechless. Once again she found herself standing in the
presence of a boy and feeling very inadequate. Part of her hated that
feeling, and yet part of her reveled in it.

James looked around for Fugue, but the fellow was nowhere in sight. He
was about to ask where Fugue had gone when he heard a gruff, deepish
voice say behind him, "I'm ready to embark when you are." James turned
around.

Fugue was wearing a beard. And a toupee.

"That's great, Fugue. But someone's going to need to keep watch over the
rest of the group while we're gone."

Fugue didn't immediately reply, but instead took off his glasses and
wiped them with a handkerchief as a scholarly manner of thinking. (He
was also wearing small, thick-rimmed glasses.)

"We don't need anybody to watch us!" said the dolls. "We were taking
care of ourselves long before you came along."

"Yes, but things have changed. Too many people are searching for us, and
there's a chance they may have already found this place. Fugue is the
best person to get you out of danger if it comes."

"What the boy says is true," said Fugue, still trying to sound as though
he had a deep voice. "I will stay with the womenfolk."

James looked over at Mr. Mosspuddle. The moment they had returned from
shopping the toad had resumed his study of Marloth. Aside for his brief
nap and the shopping excursion, Mr. Mosspuddle had been busy with his
research since they had arrived at the Inn. After some deliberation,
James approached the librarian and asked if he could borrow Marloth for
the evening.

Mr. Mosspuddle looked up in exasperation. "I keep having to set aside my
studying! If we are ever to find the orphanage then I need to finish
translating this passage!"

"But I haven't read any Marloth today. You've had it for hours."

Mr. Mosspuddle sighed. "You're right; we need to share. How about this:
I could copy all of the pages I need right now into my notebook. Then
you could take the book for the rest of the evening."

"How long would it take you to copy them?"

"Well, there are several pages and I'd want to be very careful that I
transcribed them with perfect accuracy. Maybe half an hour. Maybe an
hour. It's hard to say."

"You know what, it's all right; you don't have to copy anything. I've
never felt as clear headed and free from the zombie nature as I do
today. It must be due to my extra reading while we were on the train. I
should be good for a long while. I'll go right now with Adelle and read
up on Marloth when we get back."

\*\*\*

Evening came and the two children set off for the Globe. That was where
most everyone was going. It was one of the largest buildings in the
world, and this night it needed that for the volume of people it was
being expected to hold. It was also the most well lit building in the
world---the light passing through its outer glass walls and ceiling made
it a beacon of light to the rest of the City. It was the same with the
sound. The Globe had an enchanted sense of acoustics that allowed its
sound to travel remarkable distances with a minimal amount of decay.
Echoes of laughter and music saturated the entire City.

Flying over the city was the raven, keeping an eye on the two children
and the area surrounding them. He was trying very hard to ignore the
fearful suspicion that he might be harboring some affection for them.

Despite the crowds of people that were being ushered into the Globe,
there was still a degree of exclusivity to the event, and while by her
beauty and dress alone Adelle would have probably been allowed into the
Globe, the exact opposite applied to James, who, even with his new
clothes and attempt at bathing, still looked like a street urchin.
Because of this and a desire to avoid as much attention as possible,
they chose an alternative means of entry. Adelle had been to the Globe a
few times with Ivy, and from Ivy she had learned of a little known back
door. Armed with this knowledge, and James' eagerness to render
unconscious any half-men attempting to be guards, they made their way
into the Globe. The raven did not go inside, but instead circled the
building and maintained a steady vigil on all its entrances.

While the outside of the Globe was beautiful, that was nothing compared
to standing inside it. It was like being inside a towering diamond.
Adelle was breathless. She had been impressed by it before, but that was
nothing compared to what it looked like now. Light came to life and
reverberated around them, bouncing off of the glass walls and tile
floor. It was like walking through heaven.

As they made their way through the crowds, Adelle caught a glimpse of
Wendy and Sandwich, and she saw someone in the distance that might have
been Harris. None of them recognized her, thankfully, though she had to
restrain herself from calling out to them. There was something haunting
about seeing them again from this new perspective. Adelle kept glancing
around her in the hope of spotting Ivy, but so far she was disappointed.
She dearly missed Ivy.

They reached the central ballroom and stood there for a moment, looking
at the spacious architecture and the bustle of people surrounding them.
Adelle was soaking every facet of it into her. Angelic music was wafting
down from the heights, and already many people were dancing in the
center. Adelle waited for a few moments. Then she turned to James.

"Well aren't you going to ask me to dance?"

"What?"

"It isn't proper for the lady to ask the gentleman to dance. He has to
ask her."

"Dance?"

"Why of course! That is why you came with me, isn't it?"

James was staggered. "I---well, I ... *yes*, that's it. That's why we're
here. Exactly what you said."

Adelle looked at him patiently. James gathered his resolve.

"Will you dance with me?" he asked her.

Adelle clasped her hands together. "Why, I'd love to!"

And they danced. James had never done such a thing before, but he had
inhuman coordination and learned quickly. As for Adelle, she had been
trained by experts since she was old enough to walk. They weaved around
the other couples like a smooth breeze on ice. With every change of
music Adelle would gasp and say, "Oh, I *love* this song!" Time passed
by quickly.

"Oh, James! It's just like a dream!"

"Yes, but whose dream is it?"

Adelle leaned her head on his shoulder and began to cry. All the joy and
excitement still mixed with the pain of losing her mother and father.
The flood of emotions washed over her. James was at a loss as to what to
do. No one seemed to have noticed her, and they continued through the
motions of dancing, though her movements had become somewhat limp. James
tilted his head to look at her. In a way she was the most beautiful when
she was in distress. She was the most alive. The most real. James' mind
began to wonder. He began to think of---

Suddenly he tore himself away from her. Adelle nearly fell over and
dizzily looked up in amazement. James paused for a moment, staring at
her in horror, and then he turned and ran out of the ballroom. He ducked
behind a dark corner and stood there with his back to the wall, gasping
for breath. It was not long before Adelle came running up.

"What is going on?" she demanded, trying to pull herself together.

James held out his hand to keep her back. "Don't get too close to me!"

"Why? What's the matter? Is it something I did?"

"It's my zombie nature! It's waking up! I am such an idiot! I should
never have left Marloth behind. I need to get Marloth!"

"But James, can't we have at least one more dance? We've come all this
way and---"

"Do you want me to hurt you?" he shouted.

Adelle cowered back. "No." she whispered.

"Well I want to!" he said, and then hit himself. "I shouldn't have said
that! I wouldn't normally say that. I'm not myself. At least I'm not the
self I want to be. Don't you see we need to go?"

"Fine, we'll go!" Adelle said, clearly upset and still a little teary.
"Just let me get my things."

James waited for her in the hallway. Time passed. He didn't think it
should take so long for someone to gather their things.

James didn't notice it the first time it entered the hall. That was
because of the music. There was a large, arched doorway that connected
the hallway to the main ballroom, through which swelled a great deal of
warm light and warm music. The music was very loud; so loud that it
drowned it out.

The second time it was stronger, strong enough to make itself known over
the music, and that was when it first caught his attention, though he
dismissed it as his imagination. But once he was listening for it there
was no questioning the third time. That time he heard it clearly---it
was a cry for help.

James bolted down the hall and up a flight of stairs, tracking the
reverberating cry to its source. He finally turned a corner into a
large, open room with four zombie children in the center of it. One of
them was Ivy.

The others were huddled around her and stabbing her repeatedly.

James did not hesitate but charged into their midst. With the advantage
of surprise, he slammed one to the ground, kicked the second across the
room, and began to punch the third. To his surprise the child pulled
back and ran away. Quickly, James turned to face the other two, only to
find that they too were running away. Not knowing what to make of it, he
turned his attention toward Ivy. She was in a wretched condition. She
was a pincushion of knives and was bent over and struggling for
consciousness.

"Don't worry!" he said, running over to her. "They ran off." Carefully,
he reached behind her and pulled a knife from her back.

"Thank you," she said. And then she suddenly threw her arms around him
and kissed him.

James was so stunned by this it took him a moment to react, and when he
did he was even more surprised to find how hard it was for him to
disengage. He suddenly felt a very strong desire to return that knife
where he had found it. But the good enchantment was still wielding some
influence and he finally pushed her back. When he did he noticed
something to his left. He turned and felt his soul sink into the ground
below him.

It was Adelle. She was staring at them, horrified.

"Adelle!" he exclaimed. "It's not what it, don't---"

Adelle's heart broke in two. She turned around and ran out of the hall.
James watched in shock as she disappeared around the corner. He pushed
himself away from Ivy and threw the knife to the ground. "I'm so
stupid!" he said. "Stupid, stupid, *stupid!*"

He turned to run after Adelle, and then looked back at Ivy. It takes a
lot to slay a zombie, but she was so torn open that she was barely
conscious. While his zombie nature was regaining ground, the good
enchantment inside him was still there, and it did not want him to leave
Ivy in her plight. He chafed at that. He wanted to race after Adelle.
But the good enchantment pointed out that in his present state he would
only put Adelle in danger. It also noted that the raven had said he
would be patrolling the outside of the Globe and it was likely that he
would see her and give pursuit. James thought that was a weak
possibility, and didn't want to rely on it. The zombie nature told him
that he could handle it. That he could pursue Adelle and restrain his
zombie nature enough not to hurt her. The good enchantment disagreed.
For once he was angry with it. He tried to fight it, but the good
enchantment would not let him go his own way. Surprising both himself
and Ivy, he returned to assist her.

"Aren't you going to go after your girl?" she asked.

"What? After Adelle? No, I can't. I've totally screwed up. If I followed
her now I would just be putting her in danger. And I can't leave you
here. Those boys really messed you up; you need help too."

Ivy was speechless.

"There," James said, after a few minutes. "The knives are out. I can
carry you to some place where you can get patched up."

Ivy was tempted to oblige him, but she said, "No, I can walk."

James looked uncertain about that, but he helped her to her feet.
"Someone should escort you home," he said. "In case those boys come
back."

"They won't bother me anymore." she said, and felt a tinge of guilt over
her certainty.

James desperately wanted to go after Adelle, and he knew he needed to
find Marloth. But the good enchantment said he wasn't done yet. "I
shouldn't take that chance," he said, and he assisted her down the
stairway. Her feet were unsteady and she *did* need his arm to maintain
her balance. James made certain to take paths less tread and,
fortunately, they did not come across any other children. After they had
gone for a little way, Ivy asked him, "What did you mean when you said
you would be putting Adelle in danger?"

"Danger from me." said James. "I don't have Marloth, and it has been too
long since I read it. The good enchantment is wearing thin, and I can
feel my zombie nature growing stronger. I'm glad those boys ran away.
Even with that brief fighting I started to feel the old thrill of
violence returning. I wanted to pummel them. To hurt things."

"Well what's wrong with that? You're a zombie! That's what all zombies
do; they hurt things. If you really want, you can hurt me."

For a moment James let go of her. "No! I don't want to do that! I mean,
the zombie part of me does, but not the good part!"

"What *good part*? We're evil! We don't *have* good parts!"

"Edward Tralvorkemen gave me a good enchantment. With it I can be kind
and selfless and all sorts of things that zombie children aren't
supposed to be. I was a new person. I didn't want to hurt anyone
anymore. But like I said, that's wearing out and if I don't read Marloth
soon I'll become the old James again. Marloth is the only thing that
strengthens the good enchantment."

Ivy was beginning to understand. "So you can't help Adelle until you
read Marloth?"

"Yes." said James.

It was Ivy's turn to let go. "Look, I'm feeling a little better already.
And I can see my house in the distance. Don't let me keep you any
longer. You need to find Marloth as soon as you can."

"But---"

"Look, James, maybe you have some good enchantment, but I don't! I'm
evil! I don't deserve your help!"

"I'm not sure what you mean. You're the nicest zombie child I've met."

Ivy couldn't bear the weight anymore. "Don't you see? This was all a
setup! I was supposed to get you away from Adelle and push her over the
edge. She was the only real friend I ever had, and I betrayed her!
That's the kind of person I am! I have no heart. I have no soul. And
it's too late to fix that. Now leave me! Help the only girl who can
still be saved."

James stood there stunned. It took him a long time to catch up to all
she had said. Then he sadly nodded. "Each moment it's getting harder to
fight my zombie nature. I really had better get to Marloth soon."
Slowly, he went to return to the inn. But before he left he looked back
and said, "They would have said it was too late for me. But it wasn't.
It's never too late."

\*\*\*

Adelle rushed blindly forward, her emotions tearing her apart from the
inside out. She felt so inadequate. And she felt so jealous of Ivy.
James could freely hurt Ivy without worrying about killing her. And the
way most zombie children were deadened to pain, Ivy would probably enjoy
it. But he was deathly afraid of hurting Adelle, and he avoided her
because of it. For the first time, Adelle saw his desire to cause pain
as a need. James had a need and she was not able to fill it. Only a
zombie could.

"I hate my life!" she exclaimed bitterly. She wanted him to want her.
But as long as she had something to lose, he never would.

Then she noticed something at her feet. Not all that glitters is gold,
but this object did both. It was the crown. Gingerly, she reached down
and picked it out of the snow. She had forgotten how beautiful it was. A
small part of her mind told her to drop it. Told her to throw it away.
That she was traveling down a terrible path of no return. But the rest
of her mind told her she didn't care anymore. She placed the crown once
more upon her head.

That's when she made up her mind. She knew what she had to do.

\*\*\*

When James returned to where he had left the inn, it wasn't there
anymore. "Drat." James said to himself. It had moved again. He didn't
have time for this!

With no methodical option available, he began to randomly race about the
City in the hope of catching a glimpse of the inn.

\*\*\*

Confused and tired, Ivy returned home. Phyllis and Loury were supposed
to be there, but they had snuck out to the Ball. All the servants seemed
to be out as well, leaving the Manor empty. This suited Ivy's mood just
fine. She went upstairs to her room, took off her tattered clothes,
washed and patched up the various gouges in her figure, and put on a new
dress. When she went downstairs, her mother had just returned from the
ball to pick up some items she had forgotten.

"There you are, Ivy! I'd been wondering where you had gone to."

"I was just changing into something new." said Ivy.

"Decided to put something on to match your mood? I just saw Adelle
running off in tears. You must be feeling pretty good right now."

"No, I'm not."

"Thankfully everything went according to plan. In fact, things went even
better than I could have imagined! Adelle is completely separated from
those guttersnipes, out of her wits, and ripe for the picking."

Ivy wasn't paying her any attention. She was still marveling. "He didn't
hurt me. He wanted it but he didn't take it. I've never seen anything
like that."

"You mean that milksop trying to play the hero? No need to worry about
being spurned by a little mad boy. He can have his prissy princess when
we're done with her."

"You don't get it, do you? He didn't spurn me, he showed me respect!"

"Nonsense. Any male who doesn't want something from you is useless.
Respect is about being in control."

"No, it isn't! For a moment he saw me like he sees her: as someone in
need. I think he genuinely wanted to help me, and you know what, I
*liked* that!"

"Ivy! I'm disappointed with you! If you continue down that path you'll
be nothing but a limp rag. If you had experienced everything I've been
through, you would know how foolish it is to rely upon any man who isn't
wrapped around your little finger. There's a lot more you still have to
learn before you reach my station in life."

"Your station? I don't want your station! I don't want to be anything
like you! I *hate* you!"

"Well, that's some progress. I was starting to worry that you didn't
have any backbone."

Ivy screamed in frustration and stormed out of the room.

\*\*\*

James was at his wits end. He had been running about the City of Orphans
for what felt like hours. He was getting nowhere, but he didn't know
what else to do. He had no book, no comrades, and no clue where to
search. He paused at a street corner to think. He had the terrible
feeling that important events were taking place all around and he was
missing every one of them.

The corner he stood on was located upon a hillside and provided an
excellent view of the City. It was from there that James noticed how the
Globe was no longer the only distinct source of light in the City. An
orange glow was rising several blocks from it, and quickly growing in
magnitude. Apprehensively, James decided to rush toward the glow.

When he arrived at the site, his fears proved true. The inn was the
source of the glow, for it was engulfed in a pillar of flames. All
around were crowds of zombie children, eagerly watching the blaze and
dancing around madly. Nothing excites zombie children like destruction.

As James peered around a corner, preparing for something drastic like
fighting the crowd and rushing into the burning building, someone gently
grabbed his shoulder. With one move he pulled a knife from his sleeve
and turned to face the person behind him.

It was Ivy.

"Reconsidering my offer to stick those back in me, are you?" she said,
looking at the knife at her throat. James quickly lowered the weapon,
but he didn't put it away. "I need to rescue my friends," he said, and
turned to charge toward the building.

"Wait!" she said, grabbing his shoulder again. "You're friends aren't in
there. They've already been taken away. To Otto Marrechian's factory."

"How do you know?"

"Because everyone is talking about it. Deadwick marched them straight
through the Globe."

"And why would he do that?"

"Most people don't know, but there is a portal inside the Globe that
leads to Otto's place. It appeared a few days ago, and mother has been
doing her best to hide it. She's been trying to use it to fight her way
into Otto's factory, but so far Otto has kept her at bay. Deadwick was
really cocky to parade through the ball like that, but he knows that
most of the children are on his side. Some of the children who work for
my mother helped him get past the traps and illusions she set to guard
the portal. When I arrived back at the Globe, everyone was talking about
how Deadwick had captured those people at a nearby inn and set it on
fire. I figured I would find you here."

James pondered this information and then Ivy continued. "I can show you
where the portal is, though I have no idea what to expect on the other
side. My mother has been sending all sorts of creatures through the
portal and none of them have returned. But it is the only way I know of
to Otto's lair."

"Then to the Globe it is." said James.

\*\*\*

At that moment, on the edge of the building that was both laboratory and
factory, both the center of research and industry, Mr. Mosspuddle was
being escorted into the study of Doctor Otto Marrechian.

This was not the first time they had met. When Doctor Marrechian had
been more accepted by the Wizard's Council there had been several
occasions that had brought them into each other's company. Mr.
Mosspuddle remembered the doctor to be a surprisingly talkative man for
someone who spent most of his time cloistered away, and the doctor
remembered Mr. Mosspuddle to be an amiable chap who would agree with
anything to avoid a dispute.

After their initial greetings, the doctor paced back and forth for a few
moments and then began. "I was skeptical of the rumors. It was said that
the custodian of the Great Library had joined with a band of rogues.
That they had kidnapped the princess. That they were wandering all over
Marloth and causing no end of confusion. When I discovered that the
princess was concealed in the Great Library, there was still some hope
that they had done so against your will, but it was a small hope. By
then I had figured the rumors probably were true. Now I have the final
confirmation standing before me, and yet I still find it hard to
believe."

"I find it all a little hard to believe myself."

Doctor Marrechian almost smiled and then turned toward one of the zombie
children who was attending the librarian. "You confiscated his books,
correct?" The child nodded and lifted up a sack she was holding. "Did he
happen to have a book named 'Marloth'?"

The zombie child reached into the sack and took out Marloth.

"Marvelous! After all this time, I finally have custody of that book.
No, I don't want to touch it; put it on my desk." The zombie did so.

Mr. Mosspuddle looked at the doctor curiously. "So you acknowledge that
it has power?"

"If it has power, it is the power of madness. It carries madness like a
rat carries a plague. My curiosity is begging to read it, and someday I
may devise a means of exploring it indirectly so as to avoid its
influence, but I might not."

"It's only madness if it is a lie. But if it is true, then the nature of
its power is not madness, but enlightenment."

"We could spend all night asserting whether its power is good or ill,
but without evidence we are simply trading air."

"Agreed, and as it happens, I do have evidence for my case. We are
standing in the middle of it. By means of this world, I have seen
Marloth's power demonstrated."

"Aside for making people fools, what demonstration do you speak of? I
heard how Message opened the book, tested it and found it wanting.
Message was designed to have exceptional discernment of magical
properties. I should know: I was one of the key architects behind its
construction."

"Message works from an unquestioned assumption, that if a book has an
effect, it would be a limited effect. But what if that wasn't the case?
What if that book affected everything; what if it was affecting the
entire world right now? There would be no way to distinguish it! No
contrast between where the effect began and where it ended!"

"There has never been a book with that broad of an influence! It is
impossible!"

"You mean you haven't discerned a book with that kind of power. If there
was such a book, all of your methods and all of the wizards' methods
would be insufficient to measure it."

"I don't recall you ever being this argumentative," growled the doctor.

"These aren't my arguments. I acquired them from the book. By now I've
read Marloth so much it is in my bloodstream. While the specifics of the
book are different from the specifics of this world, the general
patterns are the same. It has a scene similar to the one we are in right
now, where two people are debating the importance of Marloth. One of the
characters is even a doctor. We are reenacting that scene right now. We
are in the story."

The doctor slammed his fist on the desk. "I refuse to believe I am a
character in a book! There is simply no proof!"

"Your only thought of proof is things you can measure with your
instruments! But there are proofs beyond your tools!"

"Enough! I can take no more of your nonsense. The reason I called you
here was to offer to restore you to your position at the Great Library,
but now I see you are utterly lost to reason!"

"I've spent nearly my entire existence poring over books, yet I
discovered that there is only one that really matters. I'm done being a
librarian. That life is behind me now."

"Then this has been a waste of time!" the doctor shouted. He furiously
motioned toward the children standing in the doorway. "Get him out of my
sight! And then silence him for good! Silence the lot of them!"

\*\*\*

As James and Ivy were heading toward the Globe, the raven dropped down
from the sky and rested beside them. He looked sullen. So sullen in
fact, that he did not immediately initiate dialogue, but sat there
coldly.

"Where's Adelle?" James asked.

"I lost her." said the raven, and left it at that.

"Lost her? How?"

The raven looked at James as if hoping the boy would lose interest, and
then replied, "She told me to leave. And I left."

James was stunned. "This is Adelle we're talking about, right? You
actually obeyed her?"

The raven began to jerk his head back and forth angrily. "She must have
cast a spell on me! I didn't realize what had happened until she was
already out of my sight."

"How could she have done that?"

"I don't know! It's all a blur! All I know is that I should never have
bothered helping her! She's nothing but trouble. All girls are trouble!"

It was then that he noticed Ivy.

"What is she doing here?" he shrieked.

This was when Ivy spoke up. "Otto has captured your friends, and I---"

"They're not my friends."

"---And I am leading James to a portal in the Globe that can take him to
Otto's factory." Ivy finished in annoyance.

"Wow." said the raven. "That smells so much like a trap the fumes are
nauseating."

"I trust her." said James.

"Yes, well, you have a thing for pretty faces." said the raven.

"And apparently so do you." said Ivy. The raven grew very quiet.

"You don't have to come," said James. "I trust Ivy, and I'm going with
her to the Globe."

The raven grumbled low enough to avoid being understood and followed
after them.

\*\*\*

There was a knock at the door of Otto Marrechian's fortress. Which was a
bit awkward because the door was boarded up. But the children didn't
mind. They didn't even hear it amidst all the bustle and industry.

Suddenly there was a girl standing in their midst. She was dressed
completely in black and gray and wore a crown upon her head. Though she
was not tall she seemed to be looking down at all of them.

"I'm here to speak with Doctor Otto Marrechian." she said.

"Who are you? How did you find this place?"

She focused her attention on the nearest child. "Take me to Doctor
Marrechian."

Murder flashed across the child's eyes, but it did not retaliate. None
of them did. Normally they would have just quartered her then and there
for the fun of it, yet they didn't. Begrudgingly, the child stepped
forward and led the girl through the crowd of stunned laborers. As they
walked through the factory the girl felt a sense that she had been there
before, but she thought little of it. Eventually the child led her up a
winding staircase and into the doctor's study.

Otto looked up in surprise. "Who are you?" he exclaimed.

"Do you not know me? I am Princess Adelle, Daughter Heir of Marloth."

Otto nearly dropped his spectacles in even greater surprise. "It *is*
you! Standing right here in front of me! I didn't recognize you!"

"I hear you have expended a great deal of energy and resources into
trying to bring me here. Well, here I am."

The doctor was still struggling to catch up. "Somehow I thought you were
younger."

"Is that any way to address your future queen?"

"No, I just---"

"I did not come to listen to the Great Otto Marrechian babble. I have a
job for you ... "

\*\*\*

When Ivy returned to the Globe, the party was still in full swing. No
one seemed to pay attention to the zombie boy and raven trailing behind
her. They didn't seem to notice Ivy either. It was the first time she
saw a reason to appreciate her loss of popularity.

After leading the two heroes through several crowds, they finally
reached a less populated region of the Globe and stopped before a dead
end. Ivy put her hands to the wall and after poking and prodding it in
several places it slid aside to reveal a secret passage beyond it. The
passage was round in shape and pitch dark except for a faint rainbow of
color that could be seen at the far end of it.

"Wait right here," she said, and she disappeared into the darkness.
After several minutes, she returned and, after lighting a lamp, told
them to follow her.

"My mother has all sorts of magical traps, and I just disabled them,"
she explained as they traveled down the passage. At the passage's end
was a swirling vortex of color and magic.

"There it is." said Ivy. "Now hurry. I need to reset my mother's traps
and return to the ball before anyone notices."

"Thank you for helping us," said James, and he stepped through the rift.
The raven, however, lingered behind for a few more words.

"I suppose these circumstances aren't coincidence, because it so happens
that I have a message for you."

"Oh, yes, I know: you're the bird that flies around telling people
horrid things. Well make it quick; I don't have much time."

"No, you don't. What I have to tell you is the same perplexing message I
brought to the boy who just left us. Despite your being dead, somehow
you are going to die again. I don't expect you to believe me. No one
ever---"

"How long do I have?"

The raven was surprised. "I can't say for sure, but I sense the end of
this whole business is drawing near. I doubt you have beyond the night."

Ivy nodded. "Thank you. I'm glad to know my demise in advance. There are
things I want to do before I go."

She did not sound angry or upset. She did not sound afraid. She sounded
tired, like someone who does not cry because they have run out of tears.
But there was also a hint of peace. She looked like she *wanted* to die.
She paused for a moment in consideration, thanked the raven again, and
moved down the passageway. The raven cringed inside. His job was getting
harder. It had been easier when everyone had just hated him.

\*\*\*

For a moment that felt like years, James was surrounded by flashes of
color and sound. The next moment he was standing in the basement of Otto
Marrechian's fortress.

From the ceiling above him he could hear the rhythmic clattering of
heavy machinery, both low pitched 'thunks' and high pitched 'clinks'.
There was a single doorway leading out of the room and up a winding
stairway.

The room was strewn with the dismembered remains of zombie children, and
in the middle of the room there was a large pile of dust and weaponry.
The raven soon appeared beside him.

"Some party." said the raven. "I wonder what's with all the metal and
dirt?"

James began digging through the dust. "It's ogre equipment. I'm guessing
this was once an ogre. Maybe several of them."

"The only thing I know of that can turn ogres to dust is wizards," said
the raven.

James picked up a syringe from the floor and looked at it curiously.
"Otto is a wizard of sorts," he said absently. He placed the syringe
back on the floor. Then, after pulling a few grenades from the debris
and tucking them into his satchel, he and the raven headed up the
stairs. The stairway led them to a large room filled with gears and
pulleys.

There were scores of zombie children running from one place to another
and looking very busy. No one noticed the newcomers. A group of zombie
children, many of them armed with syringes, filed down the staircase
James and the raven had just come from.

"I'm going to explore the place and find out what I can." said the
raven, darting up another flight of stairs. James did his best to blend
in with the other zombie children and set off down the nearest corridor.

Ever since he had stepped through the portal, James had felt a strange
sensation. It was similar to what he had felt when he had sensed
Adelle's presence, but this sensation was stronger and it couldn't have
been Adelle. Her aura had been warm and comforting. This felt cold and
malicious. James chose his path carefully. Whatever it was he was
sensing, he wanted to avoid it.

\*\*\*

"What?" said the doctor. "But that will make everything so much more
difficult! Not to say that your request is a new idea for me---I have
been prepared for that possibility from the beginning. Somehow you *are*
in the book of contracts, and you would be a candidate. But still, it
would be a considerable inconvenience and I'd rather avoid it."

"You know what, at this point I'm not really concerned about
inconveniencing you." said Adelle. "I *am* the future Queen of Marloth."

"Yes, you are."

"Address me as 'Your majesty'."

"Yes, your majesty."

"Good." Adelle walked over to the window. "Now to the question of how to
do it. I've been thinking that the tower would make a good departure."

"Yes." said the doctor. "But if so, your majesty should give me the
crown to hold for you. Otherwise it would probably get broken."

"No! You're not taking my crown! Never mind, I won't go that way. I'll
use a more stable means."

"Well, you're going to have to trust me with that crown sooner or
later."

"Maybe so, but not until I absolutely have to."

"That doesn't make any sense. If you're---"

"The crown stays!" she shouted.

"Yes, your majesty."

\*\*\*

James had not realized how big the factory really was. It was a fiendish
labyrinth of twists and additions that spit in the face of geometry. The
dolls must have been horrified at its structure, for it did not simply
lack aesthetic taste, it was a living, breathing attack against it.
There were places where doors were used as parts of walls, not to
provide a doorway, but simply because they had been the most ready
material at hand. The floors and walls were rarely level and some were
close to diagonal. Stairs were infrequent. Instead, the zombie children
climbed ladders, chains, and machinery to ascend or descend the levels
of the factory, while a limited number of rickety elevators existed
solely for the doctor's use.

Despite the daunting schema, James somehow had an easy time predicting
its layout. He could not remember if he had been there in his earlier
zombie days, but he figured he must have since much of the building was
familiar to him.

As he was skirting a hallway on the outer edge of the factory, he came
across a zombie boy who actually paid attention to him.

"What are you doing here?" said the boy. "This is a restricted area!"

"Sorry," said James. "I must've gotten turned around."

The boy examined him more carefully. "I've never seen you before. Who
are you?"

"I'm new here." said James.

The zombie wasn't buying it. "I would have been informed of anyone
who---Ahhh!"

James lifted him off his feet and hurled him through the nearest window.
As with every other window in the factory, this one was boarded up, so
the boards exploded outward as the zombie child crashed through them.

James had not expected what was on the other side of the window. Beyond
it there was no landscape or clouds. There was no sun or moon. There was
nothing but a swirl of colors, just like the portal he had passed
through.

"Pretty wild, isn't it?" James straightened to see the raven landing
beside him.

"What's going on?" asked James.

"I don't know how it happened, but that's portal space out there. Otto's
factory has been completely displaced from spatial reality. Step outside
of this building and you could wind up anywhere in the world."

James took this in stride. "So have you found anything on the others?"

"Yes. They aren't here anymore. I didn't see it myself, but from all of
the talk I picked up around here, it sounds like they escaped."

"Good for them! How did they escape?"

"I think they stepped outside."

Oh. James looked back at the window. "So then they could be anywhere in
Marloth?"

"That's about the gist of it. But not the book. I saw it in Otto's
study. It was on his desk."

"Where's his study?"

"Follow me."

\*\*\* Mr. Mosspuddle continued to examine their predicament. He, Fugue,
the dolls, and Miss Bethany were stranded on a narrow plateau of marble
rising high above the clouds.

"What a pretty view!" said one of the dolls.

The librarian wasn't enjoying the view. Neither was Fugue. "We need to
get back to the action!" he exclaimed, and then turning to Mr.
Mosspuddle, "You're the smartest fellow here. How are we to get off this
place?"

The librarian threw up his webbed hands in frustration. "I don't know!
I'm trying to think of a solution, but I'm no wizard. I'm not an expert
at wielding books, and most of the books I did have were lost in our
series of adventures."

The few books he had left were neatly arranged on the ground before him.
He carefully gazed from one to the next.

"I told James I would take care of the womenfolk!" said Fugue. "I can't
let him down!"

"Actually, we aren't in any danger at the moment." said Mrs.
Gingersmile.

"And it sounds like you want us to go back *to* the danger." the swan
added.

The cloth animal kicked a pebble and made some noncommittal comment.

Suddenly there was a cry and everyone turned to see Mr. Mosspuddle
hopping up and down excitedly. "I have it! I have it!" he shouted.
Taking one of the world's most obtuse books, he held it over the edge of
the plateau and opened it. The book grew to the bloated size of its own
self-importance and rested in mid air. The librarian gave a short laugh,
gathered the rest of his things, and hopped onto the book.

"Come on!" he said, motioning for the others to join him. Not fully
understanding his idea but having nothing better to do, they likewise
climbed onto the book. Then the librarian opened the second copy of the
world's most obtuse book just beyond the edge of the first one. It
likewise expanded and remained fixed in the air.

"Now climb over to that book!" he said. Once they were all across, he
closed the first book, carried it to the other side of the second, and
opened it again.

"See what I'm doing?" said the librarian. "We're using these books like
a person walks down the street: one foot after the other. It's
brilliant!"

"Yes," said Fugue. "This is going to take forever."

\*\*\*

Deadwick was receiving more and more reports of fights breaking out
around the factory. A fight every now and then was nothing remarkable
amongst zombie children, but this sudden concentration of them was
raising the goblin's suspicion. As he was on his way to investigate one
of these fights he passed Doctor Marrechian. The doctor stopped him to
ask if he had recently seen Adelle.

"No. Have you already misplaced your princess?"

"Not exactly ... I'm certain she's still in the laboratory. At least, I
hope she is. Oh, what if she isn't? What if she has left me? It's all my
fault, really. She didn't like any of the choices I was presenting to
her so she said she was going to find a better one. At the time I
thought she meant a better method that I could implement. But what if
she meant a whole different approach entirely? One that didn't involve
me! This is so frustrating! I didn't even get a chance to finish telling
her all of my ideas!"

"I think you're making this way too complicated," said Deadwick. "Though
hey, what else do you do?"

"This is not my choice! She's an idealist, and wants everything to be
perfect. I'm having a hard time finding a solution that meets all of her
expectations. She has many demands, the strongest of them being that
whatever method we use does not dislodge the crown from her head."

"So she wants to---*Crown?* She has a crown? *The* crown?"

"I think so. It looks like the one her mother used to wear, except
paler."

"And she's actually *wearing* it? Why didn't you take it from her?"

"Because she didn't want me to. How could I go against her wishes?"

Deadwick looked at him in astonishment. "She has you under her spell!
You'll do whatever she tells you no matter how stupid it is!"

"I am under no spell."

"That's exactly what you would say if you *were* under a spell. Spells
are sneaky."

"Well if you're so worried then why don't you go and shoot her? She'd
probably appreciate it."

"No way! I'm not going anywhere near her!"

\*\*\*

James peered around the doorway into Otto's study. There was no one in
sight. He motioned to the raven and they ducked inside. The raven landed
on the desk. There was no book on it.

"It's gone!" he exclaimed. "It was here not more than ten minutes ago!"

James did a quick scan of the room. There were a few books lying around
but nothing like Marloth. He began to frantically dig through drawers
and piles of paper.

"I'm not very well suited for this form of searching," said the raven.
"Perhaps I should continue scouring the factory for any more
information. And if the book has been moved I may catch a glimpse of
it."

"Thank you." said James, and the raven flew from the room.

Sometime later, James finally concluded that Marloth must be elsewhere.
He hurried out of the study and down a winding passageway. He was not
sure where he was going; he just knew he had to keep moving. The place
was crawling with zombie children and he had already had to fight off
several of them.

James rounded a corner and nearly bumped into Doctor Otto Marrechian.
They both stood there for some time, staring at each other in surprise.
Finally, James exclaimed:

"Doctor Hurley? *You're* Otto Marrechian?"

The doctor scrambled to find a good response. "This isn't what it looks
like! You are in the middle of a delusion, and you have dragged your
idea of me into it! None of this is real! You are really back in the
Asylum and---"

"Oh shut up! I'm not buying that 'it's all a delusion' stuff anymore."

"Fine." said the doctor. "Maybe this isn't a delusion. But you're still
mad."

"And so are you."

"Fair enough."

"But I haven't come for my sanity to be tested."

"Oh, you'd be surprised how such tests can sneak up on you. But yes, I
think I know why you are here."

"Good. Tell me where it is."

"It? Don't you mean *her*?"

"It. I've come for Marloth. Where is it?"

"You mean that book that's caused no end of trouble? I thought you were
here to rescue the princess."

"Adelle? She's here?"

"Yes, she's here. She came willingly."

"What is she doing here?"

"At the moment? Probably dying."

\*\*\*

Adelle could not believe how disorganized the laboratory was. Children
were running everywhere and she could not get a straight answer from any
of them as to what was going on. As she patrolled the winding corridors
in search of any intelligence, she finally came across a person who was
actually able to provide some useful information. It was Deadwick. They
nearly bumped into each other turning a corner, and before the goblin
could retreat he had once again under her magical charm.

"The doctor is looking for you," said Deadwick.

"As I am for him!" she said. "What is going on here? This place is
turning into a riot!"

"A troublemaker slipped into the factory. We're trying to find and
dismember him, but so far he has eluded us. At one point we almost had
him cornered in the East wing but he had planted a bomb that took out
seven of my kids. That little bugger is going to pay!"

The goblin stood there a moment stewing and then said, "Anyhow, the
doctor is worried about you. He's afraid that something might happen to
you."

"Why? Not even you and your army of zombie children can hurt me now,
what is there left for me to fear?"

"It's not that. He's not afraid you'll get hurt. It's that you might
change your mind---leave the factory and choose someone else, especially
now that ... " The goblin trailed off.

"What do you mean? Speak plainly!"

Deadwick actually shuffled his feet and looked at her sheepishly. "It's
the guy I mentioned. He's ... that zombie kid with the crazy book."

Adelle's eyes widened. "James is here?" She looked off into the distance
wistfully.

"I want him to do it."

\*\*\*

James was in a quandary. As he was in the midst of madly dodging the
pursuit of one zombie child after another, he was at the same time
struggling with whether to find Adelle or get as far away from her as
possible.

The question was answered for him when he stepped out onto a walkway
that rose over and behind the central room of the laboratory, the room
which held the zombie machine. The zombie machine itself was stationed
against the wall directly below the walkway James was crossing. James
had nearly reached the other side and passed into the next room when he
stopped in his tracks. In the middle of the room was Adelle. James could
not believe his eyes. "The crown? She has it ... *again?*"

But there wasn't time to worry about that. A zombie child was rushing
toward Adelle and swinging an axe. Without a moment to loose, James
dropped down atop of the child and the two entered into a fierce
struggle that finally ended with James hurling the other through an
opening in the floor. The child fell several stories and crashed into a
collection of machinery below. James pocketed his knives and turned to
Adelle. She looked so different from when he had last seen her at the
Globe. It's as if the zombie child disguise had taken on a life of its
own and made her look far more grim and terrifying than any zombie. He
had no idea what was going on, but he suspected it had something to do
with the object on her head.

"What are you doing with that crown!" he exclaimed. "Don't you remember
it's evil?"

For a moment Adelle had almost smiled, but it quickly disappeared. "Are
we *really* here again? Are you going to throw my crown out a window
like you did last time? Dash my feelings against the rocks? Make me cry?
You'd like that, wouldn't you?"

"Yes---I mean, no! I mean ... you are kind of attractive when you're ...
"

James felt something in his hand and looked at it. He was holding one of
his knives. That was strange. He didn't remember taking it out of its
sheath. He looked around to see if there were any mirrors materializing
nearby, but there didn't appear to be. Then again, his reflection didn't
really need to be there---Adelle was already doing the reflection's job.
James tried to focus.

"It's been too long since I've read Marloth," he said. "The good
enchantment is wearing thin. I need to find Marloth so I can restore
it."

"Oh, Marloth. Yes, it's somewhere around here."

"You know where Marloth is?"

"Maybe ... " Adelle said flippantly.

"Where is it?" he demanded.

"I'm not going to tell you."

"Adelle, listen to me! My zombie nature is taking over! If I don't read
Marloth soon, I will kill you. I'm trying to get away from you but I
don't have that much control anymore! If you won't tell me where Marloth
is then please get away from me! I'm trying to fight it but I can't
fight it much longer: I want to kill you!"

"I know. I want you to. And I'm staying right here until you do it."

"What? Why are you doing this?"

"I can't take the pain anymore. I want to be a zombie like the rest of
you."

"But what about the hell? The Judgment Day? All of the evil that a
zombie child does facing them on the world beyond this world?"

"I'm not sure there is such a thing."

"There is!"

"Maybe so, maybe not. It's a chance I'm willing to take. James, this
isn't just for me, it's for you too! When I am dead, I will have more to
offer you. You will be free to hurt me without any guilt. I know that's
what you want."

James reached out and grabbed her by the throat. "Stop tempting me!" he
shouted. Despite the restriction on her throat, Adelle still managed to
say, "Looks like your zombie nature is kicking in."

James was horrified and quickly let go of her. Okay, that's not what
happened. He *tried* to let go of her. But he couldn't.

It was then that the doctor stepped into the room, followed by Deadwick.

"So there you are," said the doctor. "I see you two are working out your
differences."

Deadwick snickered. "Maybe we should give them some privacy."

James was trembling as he slowly found himself shifting into position
with his knife hand outstretched behind him, ready to strike.

"What are you waiting for?" Adelle pleaded. "Please stop the pain!"

"Yes, hurry it up!" said the doctor. "We haven't got all day!"

But to James all of their talk was becoming a distant clattering. Every
drop of his concentration had been sucked from the room and into the
unseen battle being waged within him. "One more time," James whispered.
"Please help me just one more time." Slowly, painfully, his left hand
fought itself free from Adelle's throat and awkwardly worked its way up
to the satchel slung over his back. As if with a mind of its own, his
hand took out the bomb.

"What are you doing?" the doctor demanded. "You can't be resisting! You
have nothing to resist with!"

James did not say a word. He simply pulled back the bomb, took one last
look at Adelle, and hurled the device into the zombie machine.

The room was enveloped by sound and light.

It was some time before anyone stirred. The doctor was first, pulling
himself from the debris and turning to look at his machine. In its place
was nothing but a hole that extended across much of the floor and wall.
He was horror-stricken.

"My machine! My children! All destroyed in an instant! Why? *Why?!?*"

Adelle likewise rose to her feet. She seemed to be unharmed, though
disoriented. The goblin also was just then standing. From an upper
window, the raven watched solemnly. Adelle looked at the ground nearby
where there was a crumpled glint of gold. A flying brick had just missed
her head and clipped the crown from her temple. Now the crown was a
mangled mass lying on the floor. There was no way it would ever fit on
her head again.

Then she spotted James. He was lying on the floor in a motionless heap,
his vacant eyes staring up at the ceiling. "James!" she shouted, and
rushed over to him, trying desperately to revive him but to no effect.
She burst into tears over the still body that had once called itself
James.

"Sometimes I hate being right." said the raven, and flew away.

"This is all her fault!" said Deadwick. He drew his firearm and pointed
it at Adelle but the doctor stepped between them.

"Oh no you don't!" said Otto. "I can build another zombie machine, but
until then she is of no use to me dead. I hate her and that boy for what
they've done, but we still need her. Now lock her upstairs until I can
figure out how to fix this mess we're in."

For a moment Deadwick looked like he was going to cast the doctor aside
and shoot her anyway, but after much glaring he begrudgingly holstered
his weapon.

Adelle didn't hear any of this. The world around her and James had
dissolved into a fuzzy haze. She couldn't take her eyes off of the body
lying in front of her. This wasn't what she had wanted! She hadn't
wanted to hurt him---she had wanted to join him! This wasn't supposed to
happen!

Something grabbed a hold of her and began to pull her away from James.
She screamed and kicked, but could not fend off the force that dragged
her away from James until he had disappeared around a corner.

James was lifeless! What had she done? What had she been thinking? But
wait, what if he wasn't completely gone? She should have checked his
pulse. No, on second thought, he had probably never had a pulse.

This was silly! He had never really been alive! He had only ever been a
puppet of the machine! And yet, if that was all it was, then why had she
wanted to be just like him? It suddenly felt so foolish. Then the
something let go of her and she heard a door close and lock behind her.
Gradually she slipped from her reverie and became aware of her
surroundings. She was in a wide, dingy room with a low ceiling and a
dusty atmosphere. It was crammed with tons of forgotten miscellany,
mostly things that were shades of brown like cardboard boxes and wooden
furniture. There was very little floor space left to walk on. While she
did not forget about what had just happened to her and James and her
guilt continued to play in part of her mind, her natural curiosity was
triggered enough for her to begin to stumble through the piles of
endless stuff and see what oddities she might find.

It wasn't long before she came across a tall, framed object that she
surmised might be a painting, but it was so caked in dust that she could
not say for sure. She took a rag that was lying nearby and wiped away a
portion of the dust. Hmm. It looked like a painting of the room she was
in. No, that wasn't right. It was a mirror.

She wiped away another swath and saw a little girl looking back at her.
Black lines ran down her face where the tears had traced their paths.
She looked wretched.

She wiped away more of the dirt until she could see her entire figure in
the mirror, a stroke of gray before a background of brown. She hadn't
realized how much of her skin was unclothed. She looked around and found
a shawl just about her own size. After shaking most of the dust off, she
wrapped it around her. She also removed the stuffed animals from her
dress and tossed them aside. Then she took another look at the mirror.
Even though now she looked a little frumpy, she was more decent. Then
she took the rag and began to wipe the paint from her face. Without
water it was hard to remove. She had to scrape her skin to get the stuff
off, and even then she was not able to remove all of it. But when she
was done she looked more like ordinary Adelle.

Then she spotted through the reflection that the book was laying not far
behind her. Turning around, she went over to the book and picked it up.
Yes, this was it; the book James was always carrying around. She sat
down and opened it. Most of the languages she did not recognize, but
after some scanning she found passages written in a language she was
familiar with. Throughout her childhood she had heard so many
fairytales. Now for the first time she began to read where they had come
from.

\*\*\*

On a distant cliff a man was looking out over Marloth. The raven flew up
and landed beside him.

"She betrayed us!" the raven exclaimed. "I knew she would! I knew it, I
knew it, I knew it! Why did I ever trust her?"

The man looked at the raven gravely. "You're not really disappointed,
are you?"

"Of course I am! How could I not be?"

"Because you *wanted* her to fail you."

The raven jerked his head back and forth a few times. "Okay. Maybe a
little."

"None of this is really about trusting Adelle. Your complaint is with
me. The real question is: do you trust me?"

"For the most part."

"That's not trusting. If you trusted me, you would not have given up on
Adelle. I told you I was going to save her."

"And you haven't! It's too late now! She's corrupted to the core!"

The man sighed. "I think you should go back and help her."

"Aren't you listening to me? Haven't you seen what's happening? She's
already corrupted! James is destroyed! Jakob Damond is coming to get
her, and she'll play right into his hands! It's too late now!"

Again the man looked gravely at the raven. "It's never too late."

\*\*\*

When Deadwick returned to where he had left the doctor, he found him
searching the debris frantically.

"She's locked up." said Deadwick. "How soon before I get my army of
kiddies back?"

"I don't know. One of the most important components has been destroyed,
and it will not be easy to replace. I'm not even sure if there is
another like it."

He took out a pen and paper and began to write. Once finished, he
proffered the note to Deadwick, saying, "These are directions to a
certain toyshop. I need you to go there and ask for a book of contracts.
He'll know what you mean."

Deadwick looked at the note in Otto's hand. "You know, I'm really not in
the mood for errands right now."

"Then your army of zombie children will have to wait!"

Sighing, Deadwick took the note, started to move toward the exit, and
then abruptly stopped. There was an ogre filling the doorway. The
doorway was huge and yet the ogre barely fit.

"The portal!" Deadwick shouted at Otto. "It's not guarded anymore!" He
whipped out his firearm but already a second ogre had shambled through
the doorway on the other side of the room. Deadwick took a step back and
lowered his weapon. Things like a goblin with a gun were nothing
compared to the destruction two fully equipped ogres could unleash.

"Don't worry," said the Lady Mediev as she entered the room accompanied
by several half-men. "I didn't use your precious hole in reality; that
thing is gone. I came through the front door." She noticed James' body
lying on the ground. "Wow." she said. "That is such a relief. He is
finally dead---er."

"What do you mean, '*gone*'?" said Otto.

The Lady looked up and glared at him. "You know exactly what I mean!
Blowing holes in reality is one thing, but ruining my ballroom, *that*
is unacceptable!"

"What in the world are you talking about?"

"Don't play games with me! I want you and your filth out of my ballroom
this instant!"

The doctor was so confused by these words that he was not sure what to
say. But Deadwick didn't need to understand people to argue. "We're not
in your stupid ballroom!" he growled.

"That's right. Why don't you look outside and then tell me that again?"

Both the goblin and the doctor went to the nearest window and looked
through. Beyond it they could see the spacious interior of the Globe.
Hundreds of youthful bodies were strewn across the floor. The goblin
uttered many foul oaths of amazement.

"I must say, I had no idea that so many of my patrons were your science
experiments." the Lady Mediev noted.

"What happened?" the doctor wondered aloud, still gaping through the
window.

"I don't know what happened! It was *your* hole! It's gone and now your
ugly laboratory is in the middle of the Globe. My beautiful ballroom!
It's now mixed with your doghouse like two works of clay that have been
smashed together. And the clay is still moving around."

The doctor launched into a stream of scientific theories as to what
could be happening, all of which meant nothing to the Lady. As she
scanned the room, she noticed the mangled crown on the ground. "You
mentioned that you had someone locked up. Who is it?"

The doctor paused, first in anger at being interrupted, and then in
consideration of how to answer. "It was a zombie girl who misbehaved."
he said at last.

"Yes, and with what looks like your zombie machine scattered around the
room, it's more important than ever to keep those little zombies locked
away."

Deadwick glared at Otto. The doctor had never been very good at
inventing stories. The Lady turned to Deadwick.

"Bring Adelle to me."

Deadwick did his best to look innocent. (A travesty indeed.) "The
princess? I don't know what you're talking about."

"I sensed Adelle's aura earlier at the ball but I never managed to catch
sight of her. Now I sense it again. Go and fetch her. Quickly."

Deadwick looked at the doctor, looked at the ogres, and then looked at
the Lady. Mumbling more oaths, he jogged up the staircase. It was not
long before he returned with Adelle. She was carrying the book with her.
The doctor was about to say something about that, but then he looked at
the Lady and changed his mind.

"Hello, Adelle." said the Lady Mediev. "It's been too long since we last
met. Would it have hurt you to at least write once or twice while you
were having adventures?"

Adelle was very quiet.

"A little shell shocked, are we? Well, a ball will fix you up. Though
that will have to wait for a moment. Before we can settle down and have
some fun, we need to deal with the other people."

"What other people?" said the doctor.

"In the other building. I'm going to inform whoever is inside it that
they also need to leave my Globe. Come along---we'll all go together.
I'm a little leery of leaving you two out of my sight."

So the Lady, the ogres, Otto, Deadwick, and Adelle all walked out
through the front door of the factory.

As they stepped out into the Globe, Adelle was able to see for the first
time the rows of bodies stretched out across the dance floor. It was
very still, though there were more half-men and other bizarre creatures
than there had been during the ball. They were patrolling the grounds
warily, as if expecting trouble.

But none of that held the group's attention for long, for their focus
quickly drifted to the tower at the other end of the ballroom, its peak
rising through the crystal ceiling of the Globe and far into the sky
above.

"It appeared at the same time as Otto's factory," said the Lady in
explanation. "I don't know where it came from, and I don't really care.
I'm going to march over there and tell its owner the same thing I told
Otto."

As they crossed the ballroom, one of the bodies caught Adelle's eye,
just as her heart caught in her throat.

"Look! It's Ivy!"

The Lady hardly even glanced in the direction Adelle was pointing.
"That's not Ivy. That's a lifeless zombie. Ivy is at home throwing a
tantrum."

Adelle continued to look back at the body as they walked past. She was
struck with a pang of guilt as she thought about how angry she had been
at Ivy. She would have turned back, but the Lady had a tight grip on her
arm and forced her to continue marching forward.

They finally arrived at the front door of the tower. It was an elegant
door, with an elegant knocker that looked like it was shaped from candy
canes. The Lady took hold of the knocker and gave the door several
violent raps. There was a long pause. Everyone stood around and waited.

"Perhaps no one is home." said the doctor.

"I think I briefly saw a light upstairs." said Adelle.

It wasn't too much longer before there came the sound of bolts and
levers being unfastened. There must have been several locks involved.
They made a melodic tune as the door was methodically unlocked.

The door was answered by a monkey.

There was a lengthy space of time where everyone stared at the monkey
and it stared at all of them. The monkey waited expectantly. It was not
about to be the first to speak.

"I demand to speak with the owner of this edifice." said the Lady
Mediev. The monkey gave no reply, but nodded its head and ushered the
group inside.

The interior of the tower was arrayed in the most luxurious fashion.
Every detail bespoke of wealth and extravagance. The monkey led them up
through long halls and winding staircases, and as they progressed they
passed many displays and showcases of different toys. Each of the toys
had a plaque beneath it that contained both a date and a title. Some of
the toys Adelle had seen before. One of them Adelle had to stop in front
of. It was a crown. *The* crown. It was as dazzling as ever. She leaned
against the glass that encased it and could feel the longing rising in
her heart, but that was quickly replaced by a flood of guilt. She
recoiled from the glass, loathing her own selfishness, and hurried to
catch up with the others.

Eventually, after far too many stairs and hallways, they finally arrived
at a cozy drawing room. Directly in front of them was a large window
that presented a magnificent view of the City. The light from the City
mingled with the light from the fire which played gently in the hearth
to their right. Before this fire there was a large armchair, and sitting
in the armchair was none other than Jakob Damond, the Toymaker.

He was staring attentively at the clock over the mantle as they entered.
It was the Eleventh Hour, and he knew it. But then he seamlessly buried
his musing and rose to greet his guests.

"Welcome to my winter house!" he said warmly.

"It's you!" cried Deadwick. "You're the guy from the castle!"

The others were surprised to find themselves in the house of Jakob
Damond as well, and a little nervous. Especially Adelle. Her eyes were
being opened to the fact that, despite his warm demeanor, he was a very
dangerous man. But then again, she was presently *surrounded* by some of
the most dangerous people in Marloth.

"And you are that goblin that keeps trying to get ahead but keeps
getting the short end of the stick," Damond replied to the goblin. "Yet
I was right, wasn't I? You did manage to finally acquire the girl;
though she turned out to be a bit more than you bargained for, eh?"

He thought this a grand joke, and gave Adelle a knowing look as though
to imply all sorts of scandalous exploits. Adelle considered running for
the door, but she figured she probably wouldn't get very far.

Jakob Damond motioned for them to take a seat in the plush chairs
clustered near the fireplace. Deadwick did not like the idea of sitting
down in the midst of such company, but the others complied. The Lady was
just about to sit down when a half-man entered the room and handed her a
note. She told him not to bother her, but still glanced at the note
impatiently. Her countenance immediately changed. She asked if this was
a joke. He said he didn't know. She asked who had written it. He said he
didn't know that either. She asked him where he had gotten it. The
half-man told her. Now the Lady looked very agitated. She absently
dropped the note, begged her leave, and hurried out of the room.
Curious, Adelle went over and picked up the note from the floor.

I'm sorry, Mother. I know I was a disappointment to you. I tried to
redeem myself. I tried to redeem the mistake that was my existence, but
I never succeeded. I'm sorry I said I hated you. I don't hate you. I'm
grateful for all the good things you gave me and all the clever things
you taught me.

I have to go now. I may never see you again, but I hope that I will. I
hope there is more to this world than what I see. I hope what the little
mad boy says is true.

Your loving daughter,

Ivy

Adelle was breathless. She quickly stuffed the paper into her pocket.

"Well that was sudden." said the toymaker. "I hope no one else is
planning on fleeing our party."

The monkey, who had also taken a seat, gave a wicked grin.

"I see you have Edward's book with you." said Jakob Damond, pointing at
the item in Adelle's hands. She wished she had some means of concealing
it, but she didn't.

"I haven't seen that book in a long, long time," he added, with almost a
hint of nostalgia.

"So you are familiar with it?" said the doctor, "I should warn you, it
is a very dangerous book."

"Yes, it is," said Jakob Damond. "It is Edward's primary means of
haunting me."

"You mean Edward Tralvorkemen? I wondered if you had heard of him,
considering your trade."

Jakob Damond stared into the fire as though seeing an ancient struggle
retold in its crisscrossing flames. "I am not referring to the Edward
you are thinking of. The man you knew was a struggling headmaster. The
man I speak of is a deadly sorcerer. If you have ever seen 'Deminox
Farinoi', it contains a striking depiction of the fiend that is not far
from the truth. Many times I have received the brunt of his mischief.
Today he dealt me a particularly low blow---with one stroke he wiped out
my entire customer base! It is a sad event, but hope is not lost; I can
still fix everything." He turned toward the doctor. "I can restore your
zombie machine."

Otto's countenance brightened. "That just so happens to be what I wanted
to ask you," he said. "My book of contracts was destroyed."

"Yes, I know. But do not fear; I have another. In fact, I have a copy
upstairs. *I* am not a fledgling businessman; I know how to protect my
assets." He gave the doctor a peculiar look. It was hard to discern
whether it was one of amusement or admonishment. Then he turned to
Adelle.

"Wouldn't you like that? To have the machine restored again? Then all of
your friends would be alive again. Even that one little boy, the scruffy
one. What was his name ... ah yes, *James*. I'm sure he'd be happy to
see you again!"

Adelle tried to make herself as small and invisible as possible.

"But before I can do anything like that, there is a matter that must
first be attended to. Edward needs to be dealt with once and for all.
And for that I need you to do something."

Adelle looked up at him in surprise. The toymaker rose to his feet and
motioned for Adelle to follow him over to the window and away from the
others. She timidly obeyed. The doctor was puzzled by this request,
while Deadwick watched the toymaker suspiciously. As Adelle drew near,
the toymaker whispered to her, "If you help me I will give you
everything your heart desires. The throne. The boy. Eternal youth. You
name it. I can even give you a certain piece of headwear I know you want
so very much."

Adelle backed away from him. She felt it was time to declare her
position. "I don't want your crown. In fact, I don't want anything from
you. I'm sorry, but I don't trust you anymore. If you really are as kind
as you claim to be, you'll let me leave this place." She started edging
her way toward the door. The toymaker followed suit.

"But you don't understand!" he said, no longer whispering. "Everything
I've done---everything I am doing; I'm trying to save the world! Edward
wants to destroy it! But his power is limited as long as he is kept out
of it. He has managed to enter it to a limited degree from time to time,
but not enough to destroy it. He has been trying to use you to get him
into this world completely, but---thankfully for us all---so far you
have not obliged him."

"Can I leave?"

"Yes, you can. Right after you perform a tiny little favor for me and
the rest of the world. Destroy that book."

Adelle looked at Marloth in surprise. "But why?"

"Because that book is Edward's only means of entering this world. Once
that book is destroyed, the eternal safety of this world will be
assured. Then the world will go on and on forever. Unfortunately, that
book is not an easy thing to get rid of. There is only one person in the
world who can destroy it. Do you know who that someone is?"

Adelle had a good idea, but she didn't say anything.

"I'll give you a clue. Her name starts with 'A'."

"A what?"

"An 'A'!"

There was a long pause.

"Here's another clue: she *loves* toys."

Adelle remained very quiet.

"Ohhh, and I'm sure you'll guess it with this one: she's a princess! And
she's gorgeous!"

More silence.

"And she's a stubborn little *****!" he snapped. "Okay, so you
can't guess it! She's you! You! You're the only one who can destroy it!
And if you don't, this whole world will end very, very soon!"

By now he, Otto Marrechian, and the monkey were all on their feet. The
toymaker seemed to have forgotten their presence. All his attention was
on Adelle.

"Do you want this all to end? Everything you know to suddenly and
permanently cease?"

"No."

"Then throw that book into the fire."

Adelle stared at the fire, and then at the book. "No." she said.

"And why not?"

"Because I think you're lying. Or at least not telling the whole truth."

"But I *am* telling the truth! What do I have to do to convince you?"

"I'm sorry, but I don't think there is any way you can."

The toymaker put his fists on his hips and looked at her with feigned
annoyance. "Adelle! You are being terribly naughty! Do you *want*
everyone to die?"

Deadwick looked sad. "I don't want to die."

"I don't want to die either." said Otto.

The monkey looked like it was going to cry.

Adelle felt her resolve waiver, but something held her firm. The
toymaker waited several more minutes and finally sighed.

"So is that the end of it, then? You absolutely are not going to oblige
me this one little thing?"

"No, I won't."

The toymaker suddenly smiled. "Actually, you will! You see, there's more
than one way to make a girl play with fire. If you're going to be
naughty and not care whether we live or die, then we might as well go
all the way and make you even *naughtier*." He motioned to the monkey
who quickly raced out of the room. In a few moments it returned with a
large platter of what looked like lumps of coal.

"Jillybons!" Adelle moaned.

"Yes, Jillybons! You were so much fun when you had a couple pounds of
these little guys inside of you!"

"No! I'm never eating that filth again!"

Jakob Damond turned to the others. "Could you be so kind as to restrain
the princess?" The doctor held back, but Deadwick and the monkey grinned
in unison. And lunged forward. She tried to dodge out of the way but
Deadwick caught one of her arms while the monkey latched onto her hair.
She tried to pull free but she was like a doll in their grasp. Deadwick
jerked her toward him and grabbed her other arm, at the same time
pinning her feet under his. The monkey pulled her head back violently by
the hair. He was bobbing up and down like a furry priest swinging from
the chain of a church bell. In all the scuffle Marloth was dropped on
the floor.

"Maybe I *am* lying," said the toymaker, as he grabbed several Jillybons
and moved toward the struggling little girl. "But even if I am, truth
means very little in a world of *Fantasy!*"

"Don't do this!" she begged, just before he violently crammed a handful
of Jillybons into her mouth.

"You'll thank me in a minute," he said, as he plugged her nose and
clamped his hands over her mouth, strangling a noiseless scream.

Convulsively, Adelle threw all of her weight backwards, kicking the
platter of Jillybons into the air. The platter slammed into the side of
Jakob Damond's head, sending Jillybons flying in all directions. The
toymaker lost his balance, and his grip. Deadwick lost his balance, and
his grip. Adelle fell to the floor, spitting out Jillybons. Before
anyone could realize what was happening, she was on her feet and had
snatched the book. Deadwick swung at her but she ducked beneath the
blow. As she ran for the door, he swung at her again and this time
connected with her head, knocking her off her feet. She flew several
feet through the air and violently landed on the ground across the room.
Yet through all of this she did not let go of the book, and awkwardly
rose to her feet to find that she had landed right beside the doorway,
which she scurried through.

"Stop her!" Otto shouted, and then as it occurred to him, "But don't
kill her!"

Deadwick ran out of the room and took out his gun. He was through with
this. He had spared her life far too many times; this girl needed to
die. But once he stepped through the door his movement was hindered by a
crowd of toys that were likewise taking pursuit.

The doctor turned to Jakob Damond. "So all this time you've been
interested in the princess simply to destroy that book?"

"No. I have a million things I want to do with her. But I can't do any
of those if Edward messes everything up, now can I?"

Adelle was racing down the zigzagging staircase when the wall beside her
exploded, showering her with bits of marble. She glanced up to see the
toys cascading down the staircase after her and Deadwick above them,
lowering his massive firearm and pulling out a second, smaller pistol
from his belt.

She reached the bottom of the stairs and nearly ran into several
half-men, all of them armed with various weapons designed to skewer and
bludgeon people. Adelle jumped backwards to avoid a swing from one of
them. Another blast from Deadwick's gun could be heard from above,
missing Adelle's head by a hand's breadth and piercing the chest of a
half-man.

Suddenly Fugue crashed into the fray like a cannonball dropped into a
pond. With his sword rapidly thrusting in every direction he made an
opening through the group of half-men that Adelle rushed through. Once
she was past them, Fugue vaulted over the half-men as the toys reached
the bottom of the stairs and collided into them.

Mr. Mosspuddle was also there, randomly throwing open books and causing
endless chaos. So were the dolls. They did not fight but their dancing
around caused a little distraction amongst the forces of evil.

Then there was Miss Bethany. She did not have any weapons. She did not
have any magic. She didn't need any. She was a Force of Nature. Everyone
avoided her like a hurricane, and for similar reasons.

Another volley was fired, this time hitting Adelle's torso. She fell to
her knees with a stifled cry. Horrified, Fugue and the librarian pulled
back from their fighting and lifted her off of the floor.

Mr. Mosspuddle threw down one of his books. It hit the floor and flew
open. A gray fog began to issue from its pages and slowly spread across
the ballroom. Within the cover of this book-generated shroud the heroes
slipped through the mob.

After much confusion and running about, one of the monsters managed to
find the book and close it, causing the fog to quickly disperse. Once
the hunters realized their quarry was no longer in sight, orders were
shouted to search the Globe for the princess.

It wasn't long before Miss Bethany was spotted charging up and down the
halls, knocking over everyone that did not leap out of her way. Some of
the monsters gave pursuit, but it was evident that Adelle was not with
her, so most of the creatures avoided her and looked elsewhere for the
princess.

Amid the flood of search parties, one group of evil toys entered a room
near the back of the Globe. The room was empty except for a bed that
rested in the far corner. It was a bed that at one time must have been
quite elegant but was now rather decrepit and looked as though it had
not been used in centuries. Its posts were tarnished, its headboard
moldy, and the fabric of its pillows and linens were a faded brown.

The toys were not intelligent enough to look under the bed. They were
only designed to walk around and kill things. After a quick scan of the
room, they proceeded on to the next room.

Underneath the bed was the band of misfits. Once the room was vacated,
they climbed out from the bed, being extra careful of Adelle and her
injuries.

Fugue went over to the door, which had been left open a crack, and
carefully closed it. "What do we do now?" he asked.

Adelle gasped for breath. "I need to get back to the laboratory."

Mr. Mosspuddle wrung his webbed hands nervously. "I'm not sure where
that is from here, and I have no idea how we could get there unseen."

It was then that the raven flew into the room from an upper window and
swooped down to land beside them.

"What is going on?" he exclaimed, and then noticed Adelle. He hadn't
expected to see her there. He had thought she would be with the toymaker
and destroying the book. Instead, here she was in the most miserable
condition. The side of her face was bleeding and starting to swell. Her
dress was torn and blood was seeping out her side. But she was still
clinging to the book. It was still intact. Painfully, Adelle lifted
herself to her feet.

"I have to make things right," she said. "I have to get to James. It's
what Mr. Tralvorkemen would want me to do."

The raven was stunned.

"Do you know the way to the laboratory from here?" Mr. Mosspuddle asked
him.

"Yes," said the raven absently, all of his attention on Adelle.

Monstrous cries of impatience could be heard echoing through the
hallways. Fugue made some comment about more monsters searching the room
at any moment. The librarian was growing restless. He turned to the
raven in exasperation.

"What are you waiting for? Are you going to help the princess or not?"

There was a long pause, and then the raven spoke,

"What princess? I don't see any princess. All I see is a queen."

\*\*\*

The forces of darkness continued to search for the princess, but they
could not find her. The leaders of the forces began to speculate that
she may have slipped from the Globe and out into the City. They began
expanding the radius of their hunting to include the immediate
neighborhood.

Suddenly there was a cry that someone had found her. The cry was carried
by more and more minions until the entire Globe was filled by creatures
running toward the source of the discovery.

The purveyor of this cry was the raven, who was hiding at the far end of
the Globe.

Mr. Mosspuddle peered out into the ballroom. There were still creatures
dotted here and there, but none of their focus was on the doorway of the
laboratory or any of the paths to that location. Carefully, the group of
heroes made their way out into the ballroom. They were more than halfway
to their destination when they were spotted by a monkey. The monkey made
a tremendous commotion that drew everyone's attention to the center of
the ballroom. No longer benefiting from caution, the heroes bolted for
the doorway. Throughout the Globe, fell beings began changing direction
away from the raven and toward the other side of the Globe. But the
raven had bought them enough time. The adventurers managed to slip
through the doors of the laboratory just before the first of the
pursuers got to them.

The doors were large and very solid. Fugue and several of the others
leaned against the doors, trying to do anything they could to keep them
from opening. But more and more fiends were gathering on the other side.

"We'll hold them off as long as we can!" Fugue said to Adelle. "But that
probably won't be very long. Whatever you are going to do, you'd better
hurry!"

Adelle hated to leave them in such a dire position, but she knew she had
to. Thanking them once again for their sacrifice, she stumbled down the
corridor and left the chaos and warfare behind her.

It was surprisingly quiet inside Doctor Marrechian's laboratory. The
walls must have been remarkably thick to block out so much sound. She
made her way toward the room where the zombie machine had once resided.
She entered the room and looked about apprehensively. There was James
where she had left him, lying on his back with his limbs splayed out.

She bent down over his still form. "I don't know if you can hear me,"
she said. "But I want to say I'm sorry. I wish I could take back so many
of the things I have done." She paused for several moments, and then sat
down. "I don't know if this will do you any good, but it's the only
thing I know left to do." Carefully, she opened the book.

As the rest of the occupants of the Globe were trying to break down the
door to what had once been Otto Marrechian's laboratory, they were
suddenly stopped by a sound that echoed through every room and every
hall of the building. It was the voice of a little girl. Her voice was
quivering and weak, struggling to breathe. There was no introduction.
She began to read.

She read of a wonderful fairytale world, full of adventures and happy
endings. Of beautiful landscapes and fascinating creatures. Of a noble
headmaster who protected his children from the darkness and loved them
dearly. And how the headmaster gave his life to save them all.

"What is that nauseating sound?"

"It sounds like a little girl. What is she saying?"

"It is dreadful, whatever it is. Make her stop!"

"But where is it coming from?"

"The Globe has a sound system! Could it be coming from that?"

"That's right! Someone should turn it off!"

There was much scurrying and frantic chatter. After some time of this,
someone said, "Will someone turn off the Globe's sound?!?"

"We just did that! But it didn't work. So we severed the wires. And then
we tore down the speakers. None of it worked. We have done everything we
can think of but that girl's voice keeps coming!"

Eventually she did stop. She had to stop. The right side of her face was
so swollen she could no longer see through the eye on that side, and she
felt guilty the way her blood and tears were dripping onto the pages.
Before long the loss of blood finally caught up with her and she
collapsed beside James.

\*\*\*

*Dear Sir,*

*You are neglecting to look beyond the surface. In this dream your book
of contracts remains intact, but in the dream that dreams this dream
your book is destroyed, and that is what matters. All of your contracts
have been made void.*

*You say you want to keep this world going forever? But how are you to
do that? What are you going to add to extend it? You cannot create
pages. You cannot create anything. With or without my opposition, you
have no means of perpetuating this dream. The end* **will** *come.*

*There is also the matter of compensation. You have taken everything from
me except what matters most: you can never take away who I am, and that
is your undoing. I acknowledge that even in this present dream I am
still an imperfect reflection, but I am now far more accurate a
rendition then I was before, and growing more precise by the minute.
Soon I will return for what is mine. All that has been taken, it shall
be restored.*

*Edward Tralvorkemen*

\*\*\*

James groggily opened his eyes and looked around. He had just been
dreaming he was in the orphanage infirmary, and Mr. Tralvorkemen was
removing the bandages from his face. But now he was in the mostly
deserted laboratory of Doctor Otto Marrechian.

At the same time, Adelle regained consciousness. Her body didn't hurt
anymore. The blood was gone. She propped herself up on one elbow and it
was then that she noticed him.

"James!" she cried out with joy. She sprang up and wrapped her arms
around him. "You're alive! You're alive! I am *so* sorry! Will you ever
forgive me?"

"For what?"

"For too many things, the worst of them being making you destroy the
zombie machine!"

"Look, I needed to destroy that thing one way or the other. You just
showed me that I had to."

"Really? But still, so much of what I did was wrong. Will you forgive
me?"

"Yes! Of course I forgive you!"

Then the depth of the situation hit her and she stepped back to look at
him in amazement. "But how is this possible? The zombie machine is
destroyed! How are you still moving?"

"The zombie machine is not what is animating me. Mr. Tralvorkemen is. I
can feel his enchantment working through me stronger than ever before.
He's *here*."

\*\*\*

I would like now to paint a picture for you. A slowly moving picture.
First, there is a room. A huge room with ceilings so high that you have
to look upwards to see where the walls end. A room so vast it could hold
legions of people. And it is: from wall to wall it is filled with
legions of evil. A seemingly endless variety of deformed creatures bent
on harm. All of their attention is focused on the far end of the room
where there is a doorway. A doorway that is also quite large and yet
still dwarfed by the overall scale of the room.

The crowd is trying to gain entrance through the doorway, but the doors
will not open. They try force: fists, clubs, guns, bombs, but to no
avail. They try magic and all sorts of dark arts, but the doors do not
budge, causing their incantations to look like nonsense. The maker of
the doors is there and even he is puzzled; he had made them to be
ordinary doors and he says there had never been anything special about
them.

The crowd is growing chaotic. Its unsated drive to get through the
doorway is threatening to turn against itself.

Near the edge of the crowd there is one creature that does not belong
there. It is a raven. It has a resigned and morbid look upon its
countenance. It is being held by a clever looking man who, despite the
growing tension surrounding him, looks calm and confident.

Suddenly the doors burst open, throwing the nearest minions deeper into
the crowd and hitting the walls on either side with a deafening thud as
the knobs and knockers are embedded into the mortar.

And this is the zenith of the picture: out of the doorway steps a man.
He has a tall frame. While his appearance is simple, he carries with him
a regal dignity. He stands before the creatures without any
acknowledgment of their hostility nor the discrepancy of numbers between
him and them.

Someone from the crowd calls out, asking who he is. He says he is Edward
Tralvorkemen. A doctor in the audience pipes up, saying that he had once
been friends with Tralvorkemen, and that this was not that man. The
doctor says that Tralvorkemen is dead. The man who calls himself
Tralvorkemen says that truly the doctor had once been a friend, but had
since turned his back on him. The man also says that he had died and yet
is alive, and that the doctor should be used to such things.

In the midst of this exchange, the raven manages to escape the clever
man's hold and fly upward, shouting several times that this is indeed
Edward Tralvorkemen before settling on a window ledge far above the
crowd.

The crowd doesn't really care who this man is. They tell him to move
aside or they will kill him. He says he will not allow them through the
doorway.

The crowd finds this amusing. They begin to laugh and deride him using
crude language. They gloat about the perverse things they will do to the
princess. Except for the clever looking man. He doesn't say anything. He
just takes a few steps back, turns around, and runs like a madman.

Despite all of their words, no one has yet taken a step forward.
Instead, someone asks the man standing in front of the doorway what he
is doing there. He says that he has come for many things, one of them
being his children. They ask, "Who are your children?" He says, "I will
show you."

And here is the most amazing part of the picture. The man who calls
himself Tralvorkemen is gesturing. There is a burst of light. Light so
intense and blinding it casts shadows clear across the room. The light
gradually fades, and one of the zombie children is standing in its
place. It looks about in wonder. The crowd looks at it in wonder. It no
longer looks like a zombie. Its skin is whole and new.

There is another flash. And another. Children begin to rise up in the
midst of the crowd. One of the half-men, growing in fear, raises his
sword and attempts to cleave the nearest child in two. The child takes
the sword away from the half-man. More flashes of light. More children
lifted to their feet. They look happy, as though finally waking from a
long bad dream. The legions begin to panic. Some of them start to fight.
Some of them start to flee. The man who calls himself Tralvorkemen
rushes into the crowd. A boy and a girl and several fairytale creatures
are running out of the doorway and eagerly following behind the man.
More children are coming to life. The swarming mass of fleeing monsters
and pursuing children begins to slowly acquire momentum and move up the
stairs. They cascade and crash upward like water rebelling against
gravity, rising along progressively higher levels of the building. Along
the wall of the stairway there is a sign that says, "The End is nearly
upon us!" Monsters are leaping out of windows and screaming and
occasionally turning to fight only to be submerged by the upward surging
force of children. In their midst are the freed prisoners, running
alongside the headmaster and shouting enthusiastically.

The building itself is very tall, but eventually the people reach its
pinnacle. The top floor does not have much in the way of walls. It
simply has beams of wood shooting up to the roof. There is an explosion
of minions as they pour out of the top floor like a fountain. The
fountain continues until there are no minions left.

The forces of darkness are no longer to be seen. Now all that remains in
the building are the headmaster, the band of adventurers, and hundreds
of children. The children are all gathering around Tralvorkemen, every
one of them trying to get close enough to embrace him all at once.
Adelle is in the crowd. As she looks around she spots Ivy standing in
wonder. Tears fill Adelle's eyes. She calls out. Ivy sees her and runs
toward her. They hug each other tightly. Miss Bethany is dancing around
with a child on each of her shoulders. Nearby, Fugue is talking to the
dolls and says to them, "Now *that* was an adventure!"

They are all very happy. So happy, there are no words sufficient to
express how happy they are. What can I say? The best I can do is this:
for the first time ever, the little boy who rarely spoke and never
smiled, smiled.

Then Tralvorkemen motioned for everyone to listen, and the hundreds of
voices gradually quieted to hear him speak. "We don't have much time, so
I will be quick. This is a time of rejoicing, but don't think the fight
is over. On the contrary, it has only just begun. Today another hole was
bored through the dark sky, letting in more light. Letting in more
reality. But there is still much reality being obscured. There are still
many souls out there who are enslaved by evil. You must fight that evil.
You must fight it with reality.

"But that is not the only fight you will face. You are still dead, and
there is a void in your souls because of it. Right now my magic is
filling that void, but some of you have already seen how the enchantment
requires upkeep or it will shrink. The zombie machine was simply a
conduit for forces which still exist, forces that have other means of
taking control of you. When my enchantment on you weakens it will leave
room for those forces to fill. The rest of your life will be a fight to
keep that enchantment strong. But now our time has run out."

Already things were starting to become blurry. Sounds grew echoey and
distant. "What is happening?" exclaimed Adelle.

She could barely make out what Tralvorkemen said, but it sounded
something like, "Don't worry. We'll meet again."

"What?" said James.

And then they awoke.

The End
