<img class="centered-image" style="width: 20%;" src="file://src/assets/images/fairytale/doll.jpg" alt=""/>

# Part 5

*Dear Sir,*

*I thank you for your advice, for it is based on truth, even if its
motives are not. You would like me to remain in this state forever. But
I am not going to oblige you.*

*I am a misshapen image of something far better than I. Until I fade from
sight, I am obstructing the view. I must die, and all of this must pass
away. But I am encouraged by the fact that after I fall into the earth,
I will rise again as someone far better.*

*As for your ledger, somehow you twisted this reality so that I
destroyed my book. That is the ultimate perversion and further reason
why things cannot remain the way they are. This is* **your** *fantasy,
and I am weary of being a part of it.*

*Edward Tralvorkemen*

* * *

Their journey to the Great Library involved a lot of falling and
shouting and plunging into water and scrambling out of water.

Mr. Mosspuddle led them to the nearest shore, or at least the nearest
thing to a shore; it was still submerged in half a foot of water. Once
they had regained their footing, he pulled away a patch of vegetation
from a wall beside the shaft, revealing a stone button which he promptly
pushed. A fit of shaking and rumbling seized the library. This grew in
magnitude until a barrage of rock and brick crashed through the shaft as
it collapsed from the inside out. The impact caused a powerful wave of
water to sweep past them, nearly carrying a random doll or two along
with it. Once the water and dust had settled, all that remained of the
shaft was a solid wall of rock.

"Now the last doorway is sealed." said Mr. Mosspuddle.

Fugue shook the sack vigorously and deposited a sleeping princess onto
the damp ground.

"So she *was* in the sack." said the librarian. "Her condition looks even
worse than I had thought." He set out into the aisles of books and soon
returned with a book titled *Pigsy's Rare Fruits and Herbs*. He was also
carrying a frying pan.

"Hold this!" said Mr. Mosspuddle, handing the frying pan to James. He
then proceeded to frantically search through the book.

"Here it is!" said Mr. Mosspuddle, pointing at a certain page. "Hold the
pan out." James did so. The librarian turned the book upside down and
shook it over the pan. After several shakes, small glowing orange
berries fell from the book's pages. The moment they touched the pan they
began to sizzle and snap and before long, the berries dropped into the
water and sunk out of sight.

James tilted the pan sideways and they both looked through it. The
berries had bored glowing holes through its cast iron frame.

"I was afraid of that." the librarian murmured.

"What are we going to do now?" said Fugue.

"Tilt her head back and open her mouth!" was the librarian's reply.
James hesitated but Fugue quickly obliged, grabbing a hold of Adelle's
hair in one hand, her chin in the other, and then pulling each of them
in opposite directions. Mr. Mosspuddle quickly lifted the book over
Adelle and shook several fire berries down her throat. They watched as
the orange glow traveled down her torso and then came the sound of a
million little screams as a million little Jillybons were incinerated.

Adelle abruptly regained consciousness and jolted to a sitting position,
coughing out billowy clouds of smoke. "What happened?" she wheezed
miserably.

"Jillybons." said Fugue. "Little buggers were killing you, but we killed
them first!"

Adelle moaned and fell back to the ground.

"Well don't thank us all at once." said Fugue.

James turned to the librarian. "They are all destroyed now, right?"

"I think so, though it will take some time to be sure. If an hour has
passed and the fever hasn't left her then we should probably administer
a few more fire berries. Right now we should give her some space and let
her rest. That means getting out of her face." he added, pulling Fugue
away from her, who had been staring down her open mouth curiously.

Mr. Mosspuddle looked back at the remains of the shaft they had come
through. "I wonder if the other zombie children can still sense Princess
Adelle even with the dimensional divide between us ... "

"I'm afraid they probably can." said James.

"Well, either way, that door I just closed was the last entrance to this
realm, so now your siblings will have a hard time getting in here even
if they do know where she is."

"So that means we're safe?"

"That means we have a little time. Many powerful and determined forces
are set on having this girl, and if they do locate her they will
probably find some means of breaking into here."

"It's so dark and wet," said Mrs. Gingersmile, looking around the
library disdainfully. "Where did all this water come from?" There was a
lot of water. Streams of it were pouring down the bookshelves, and many
parts of the floor were deep enough to swim in.

"I like the water," said Mr. Mosspuddle. "Nearly as much as I like
books. The books don't mind the water. They're so full of magic the
water just runs off of them. But the water *does* have a dampening
effect on the books. It keeps them at a manageable level."

"Well, that may work for books and amphibians, but not for the rest of
us." said Miss Perrywinkle. "I'd rather not stand around in this muck
and gloom."

"And you shan't much longer." said the toad. "My living quarters are in
the middle of the Library. It would be best if we got there before
nightfall."

"What do you mean, *nightfall?*" asked Mrs. Gingersmile. "It's been
night for several hours now!"

"Time works differently here." said Mr. Mosspuddle. "It oscillates at a
different frequency."

"But what does the time of day really matter?" asked James. "It's
already pretty dark in here."

"It's always dark here; that doesn't change. But most of the Library's
more dangerous wildlife is nocturnal. I'm used to dealing with them, but
now there is the safety of a much larger group to worry about, so the
sooner we get to my house the better." James looked at Adelle
uncertainly. "She doesn't look well enough to walk. I think we should
carry her."

Adelle, who had been looking practically unconscious, suddenly opened
her eyes. "No! I don't want any of you to carry me!"

"No one needs to carry anyone." said Mr. Mosspuddle. "I'll summon my boat." He
took a whistle from his coat pocket and blew on it, producing a noise
reminiscent to a parrot biting itself. Before long, a small wooden boat
arrived out of the darkness and stopped beside them.

"Here," Mr. Mosspuddle motioned from Adelle to the boat. "You can rest
in here."

Adelle complied and laid herself down inside the boat. There was barely
enough room for her.

"We are going to my lodgings," said Mr. Mosspuddle to the boat. "Keep
close to us."

"I don't understand." said James. "That boat has neither paddle nor
sails. How is it going to get Adelle to your lodgings?"

"It is very clever." said Mr. Mosspuddle.

And so they set out for the librarian's house. Mr. Mosspuddle led the
way with Fugue beside him. The dolls went in the middle. Behind them
trailed the boat that was carrying Adelle. The raven was also perched on
top of it. James roamed back and forth amongst the party. Most of the
ground along their course was submerged in water to some degree. Some of
it was very deep. At some places there were narrow, wooden walkways
constructed over the water. The group would walk on top of these while
the boat would continue in the water beside them.

"So what do we do if we come across a wizard?" the swan asked them.

"If we come across danger, it will probably be some construct of a
wizard, not a wizard himself." said Mr. Mosspuddle. "Wizards cannot
react well to immediate threats. Magic requires a vast amount of energy;
the more quickly a spell is prepared and cast, the more energy it
demands. A wizard could cast twenty slow spells with the amount of
energy required to cast a single instant spell. Thus, they prefer to
work from a distance, relying on forethought and preparation to deal
with opponents."

"That's right." said Fugue. "I've dealt with wizards before. Dangerous
buggers, but get right up to them and you can punch 'em in the face!"

"Neither of which is likely to happen here." said the toad.

"So then what do we do if we come across a construct of a wizard?" the
swan asked.

"We destroy it." said James.

"That's ... convenient. And what of traps? What should we do about
them?"

"Choose very carefully who is in the front." the raven called from
behind them.

Either Fugue and Mr. Mosspuddle didn't hear him or wished to demonstrate
their bravery, for they remained in the lead. James gradually fell back
a few paces to ensure he could see the boat, which had some difficulty
staying close to their path since it was restricted to the water. After
some time, the dolls approached James and said to him, "We want to make
certain that you clearly understand that you are not good enough for
Adelle."

James halted abruptly. "Excuse me?" he said.

"We are simply pointing out the fact that Adelle is the living,
breathing heir of Marloth while you are no more than a lowly zombie
minion."

"I don't think I follow you."

"No, you aren't. We are following *you!* Very closely."

"Oh." said James. "Sure, I don't mind you tagging along."

"Good. You are open to accountability. Just don't forget your proper
station in life."

"Wait, are we still on the same page?"

"You had better hope so."

Confused beyond hope, James continued down the aisle and did his best to
lose the dolls. Up ahead he heard Fugue talking to Mr. Mosspuddle.

"And then we shoved her in the sack and took off through the window just
as ogres were beating down the door! You should have seen us!"

"Yes, well," Mr. Mosspuddle coughed, and then spotted James. "James!" He
said, motioning for the boy to join them. "Fugue was just telling me
about what happened back at the Manor."

"I'm just glad that's behind us." said James.

"Well, that's sort of what I wanted to talk to you about. If what Fugue
has been saying is anywhere near the truth, I think you need to
apologize to the princess."

"*Apologize?* For what?"

"Did you lose your temper with her?"

"No. Maybe. I don't remember! I was focused on keeping her alive while
she was delirious and spouting nonsense!"

"It sounds like I was correct. You should apologize to her at once!"

"Why? What would I say? 'I'm sorry for keeping you alive?'"

"No, tell her you are sorry for being unkind. For not being patient. For
not considering that behind all the delirium and illusion she was still
suffering from very real distress."

"Fine. I'll talk to her."

"Thank you. I appreciate that. And I'm sure she'll appreciate it as
well."

James lingered back until the dolls had passed him and he was near the
boat. But the raven was still there, and now the swan was there also,
swimming beside the boat. The raven and the swan were discussing how
pathetic creatures were that could not fly. Adelle was still lying on
her back in the boat, though her eyes were open and she was looking
upward thoughtfully. James didn't feel comfortable saying what was on
his mind while there was other company around. He debated with himself
as to whether or not he should ask the birds to give him a moment alone
with Adelle, but he was not comfortable with that either. Finally, he
just decided to go ahead and approached the boat.

"How are you doing?" he asked the princess.

Adelle sat up and looked at him in surprise. "A little better." she
said.

James braced himself, and then said, "Look, I'm sorry for the way I
treated you when you were sick. I wasn't kind."

The raven and the swan abruptly stopped their conversation, and eyed
Adelle without turning their heads.

"It's alright. I hardly even remember it." she lied.

The eyes moved to James. "For whatever its worth, I was genuinely trying
to help you. Those Jillybons *were* going to kill you."

Adelle's face paled a bit. "I'd rather not talk about it." she said
quietly.

The raven and the swan resumed their conversation. James stood there for
a short time and watched as the boat continued past him. He was in the
process of sinking into deeper reveries when there was a sudden cry from
up ahead. It sounded like Mr. Mosspuddle and it sounded something like,
"Oh My house! My *poor house!"*

James rushed forward past the boat and the dolls, and the raven darted
alongside him. They caught up with the librarian and Fugue, who were
standing before a clearing in the Library that was dry and composed of
debris.

"This is where my house once rested!" wailed the toad. "Half of it above
ground, half of it below!"

"It's still resting." said Fugue. "Just now it *is* the ground."

"I'm guessing the wizards didn't expect you'd be needing this any time
soon." said the raven.

"This is devastating!" the librarian moaned. He slumped to the ground,
covered his face with his webbed hands, and spoke no more for quite some
time.

"Well, since there's no lodgings we might as well set up camp." said
Fugue. "It looks like the remains of your house will make a wonderful
campfire!"

* * *

Sometime later, the group was gathered around a roaring fire, dining on
a meal the dolls and Fugue had concocted using what ingredients they
could gather from books and local vegetation. Mr. Mosspuddle was still
very miserable and unusually quiet. The dolls were relating to Adelle the events that had led to her being there. James had just finished
patching up the bullet holes in his body and was sitting back to reading
Marloth. Fugue was trying to raise the spirits of the librarian, with little success.

After some time, Adelle stood up and said "Now that we are all situated
and together, I would like to discuss this matter of your kidnapping
me."

"We didn't kidnap you! We rescued you!" said Fugue.

"Yes, well, you certainly keep saying that. But from what I can
ascertain, you broke into my bedroom, drugged me, put me in a sack,
carried me away in the night, and did all this while wielding guns and
knives and who knows what sort of violent devices. Forgive my ignorance,
but that sounds like kidnapping to *me*."

Fugue looked dismissive. "Anything can sound bad if you put it like
that."

"We had to do something!" said James. "Otherwise those Jillybons would
have killed you!"

"Well, if that truly was your main concern, I am now Jillybon free.
Danger averted. I thank you, but that still leaves me here in the middle
of nowhere with people who, regardless of their motive, did kidnap me.
But that can be mended. If you return me to Mediev Manor, I will put
this whole incident behind me. And the sooner the better. One of the
grandest balls of the year will be taking place at the Globe next week,
and there are so many things I need to do beforehand!"

"We can't do that." said James. "The Lady Mediev is evil."

Adelle was no longer familiar with such a lack of cooperation. She unconsciously reached up and touched the crown to make sure it
was still on her head. It was. *But it wasn't working!* She *was* still
feeling some of the disorientation of the Jillybons; perhaps their
lingering effects were hindering her use of the crown. Very well then,
she would just have to see how far she could go with classic diplomacy.
Critiquing the Lady Mediev would be an easy concession that would gain
some ground.

"I agree with you to a point," she said. "While I don't know that I
would use the word *evil* to describe her, she is very arrogant and
spiteful, and I was never entirely comfortable with being her guest. But
I still need to return to the City. As another option, you could leave
me in the charge of the toymaker, Jakob Damond. He is one of the kindest
people I know."

At this the raven exploded (figuratively), and repeated his lecture on
how the title of "Toymaker" was a gross misnomer and how everything the
toymaker did ended up in perversion.

Adelle was deeply offended. "I cannot listen idly while you slander Mr.
Damond so! He is a good man, while you are arrogant and spiteful! In
fact, you are just as unpleasant as the Lady Mediev!"

Now the raven was truly furious. "I am nothing like her! She bends and
breaks truth to serve her own ends. I stand by truth and defend
it to the death!"

"If you can imagine that someone as compassionate as Jakob Damond is
evil, then you and truth must be barely on speaking terms! Mr. Damond
has been a lot nicer to me than any of *you*."

"That's all just a show," said James. "He just wants you to think that
he cares for you."

"That's what you say, but there is no evidence. It's your word against
his. But I will continue to be reasonable. If you really insist, then I
don't have to go to the toymaker, or any other individual. You can
return me to the City of Orphans and I will find my own way."

"We can't allow that either. The whole place is evil."

Adelle sighed. "Somehow I knew you were going to say that. Who and what
isn't evil beyond you band of noble heroes?"

"I'm not noble." James murmured weakly.

There was a short pause and then Mrs. Gingersmile spoke up saying, "You
boys have done enough talking. It's time to let us dolls convince
Adelle."

Adelle wheeled about in surprise. "Convince me of what?"

"These aren't the only persons who think this world means you harm. On
that point us dolls agree with them."

"You can't be serious!"

"We are no longer in the castle." said Mrs. Gingersmile. "Out here the
people are raving mad and terribly uncivil. It is our solemn duty to
protect you from the influence of such company."

"But what about our present company? They are outsiders as well!"

"That has not escaped our notice. We are watching them very closely."
All of the dolls turned to stare at James suspiciously. James tried to
shift the conversation back to Adelle.

"Whatever the case, the world is out to get you, and we are going to do
everything in our power to keep you from it."

"So then I truly am your prisoner?"

"If that's what it takes, then Yes!"

"Wait! Slow down!" said Mr. Mosspuddle. "Why are we being so antagonistic?
Everyone here (except maybe the raven) is concerned for Princess
Adelle's well-being. We're all agreed on that point. The only
disagreement is over what is truly in her best interest. Now, at least
for the time being there is no need to debate over whether the princess
should be allowed to return to the City of Orphans or if she is our
prisoner since, whether or not we were right in spiriting her away from
that place, it is beyond any of our means to return her to the City at
this time. For better or worse, she is stuck with us in this library. I
think it unlikely that we will be able to stay safely hidden here
indefinitely, and because of that, I will be searching for a means to
get us outside the Library. But until then, Your Highness, this may be
an opportunity for you to observe us, and perhaps you will see that we
are not as bent on your harm as you think. And on our side, whatever
wrong we may have done or are still doing, perhaps we will see that as
well."

Adelle spent several moments pondering his words. "That was very well
said. I will do as you say, and I will do my best to show all of you
patience despite your uncouth actions. But let me ask you this: if there
really are so many forces pursuing me, and it is only a matter of time
before they find me, how are you planning on protecting me? Are you
going to destroy everyone in the world who wants to cause me harm?"

"Egad!" said Fugue. "There would be no one left!"

"I don't think anyone here has figured out how to ultimately protect
you." said the raven to Adelle.

"But we will," said James. "I know we will." Adelle was slightly annoyed
by James' seemingly baseless confidence, but she held her peace.

With everything being said that any of them wanted to say, the
conference dispersed. An hour later found the fire dying down and the
band of adventurers preparing to sleep. Feeling forlorn and fragile,
Adelle laid her head on a rolled up sweater and covered herself with a
questionable blanket Fugue had dug up for her. She missed all of her
friends in the City of Orphans, especially Ivy. Here in this dismal
dungeon of books, with fractured misfits as her only company, she felt
more isolated from the rest of the world than she had ever before.

* * *

The sun did not shine on Deadwick the goblin. The twisted forest he was
scurrying through was far beyond the reach of daylight. The path he was
moving through was the sort that is less trod and less known. Every now
and then, he would glance back over his shoulder to make sure that no
one was following him. Which was apparently a futile exercise, because
he remained unaware of the dark and shadowy figure that trailed some
distance behind him.

When the goblin reached the edge of the forest, he emerged at the foot
of a low hill that rose above the withered treetops. At the top of the
hill was constructed a church. Well, what once may have been a church.
So many pilings and attachments had been hammered into it that it was
next to impossible to distinguish any real walls.

The goblin made his way up the hill, zigzagging through the morass of
tombstones which were scattered about the ground. The sense of danger
and dread that hung about the place was so thick it was tangible, but
the goblin did not notice. His mind was on business, as it always was.
After a remarkably long climb, he finally reached the edge of the
building where the front door stood.

Well, where the front door had once stood. If there still was a door, it
had long since been entombed by all of the additions. Expecting as much,
Deadwick began to circle the building in search of a possible entrance.
While it was silent as the grave outside, a faint rumbling of commotion
emanated from the surface of the building, as though the sound of
tremendous activity was bursting inside the building, with only a hint
of it managing to escape. Eventually he came to a thick, soot-stained
window from which occasional blasts of warm light were issuing. Finding
it locked, he tossed a rock through it. The action was immediately met
with an eruption of sound that was so tangible a force, he half expected
the shards of window to fly outward instead of in. Such volume would
have murdered most ear drums, but it hardly fazed Deadwick. He climbed
onto the sill and dropped inside.

No one noticed that a goblin had just shattered a window and climbed
through. Everyone was too busy running about with boxes, wrestling with
machinery, and arguing with everyone else. After taking all of this in,
the goblin pushed his way through the chaos and found his way up the
stairs. As he climbed, he left some of the din of machinery behind him.

On the second floor stood a man. He was hunched over a schematic of what
looked to be some bizarre flying machine.

"Hey!" said the goblin. "Otto!"

The doctor briefly looked at the goblin and turned back to his work.

"Go away. There are no positions available. I have all of the workers I
need."

"I'm not here to be hired," said Deadwick. "I already work for you!
Remember me, the guy managing all these kiddies you keep churning out?"

The doctor looked at him again and then nodded wearily. "Oh ... you. If
I remember right, you're what I would call a necessary evil."

Deadwick grinned. "You've got that right!"

The doctor sighed and once again returned to his work. "I heard you had
the princess but she slipped through your grimy fingers. Why am I paying
you if you can't do what I need you to do?"

"She slipped through a lot of people's fingers!" said Deadwick. "I hope
you realize that I'm having to fight *way* too much of Marloth to get to
her! Everyone is after her, and I mean *everyone!* But that's not the
problem that brings me here. I could have brought the princess to you
long ago except your kids keep going tipsy whenever she's around."

"What do you mean, *tipsy?*"

"One moment they are killing-machines and the next moment they are all
giving her flowers and trying to impress her with stupid tricks. At
least that's what the chaps do. The girls get even more petty and
strange than usual. Some of the girls may kill her out of jealousy, but
they would still have to fight through the rest of the kids and that
would be a hopeless mess."

"That doesn't make any sense." said the doctor. "She should not be
having that kind of effect on them."

"I think it has something to do with that crown she is wearing."

"And what scientific basis do you have to come up with such an
outlandish idea?"

"Who cares about science? My gut tells me, and it's never wrong!"

"Well forgive me, but I hope I'm never led by the insides of a goblin."

"Fine then! If you're not going to listen to my gut and your science
isn't giving you any answers, where else are you going to look?"

The doctor shook his head in frustration. "Science *is* going to provide
me the answers, but its demands are growing heavier. I have so many
questions, and the princess is the key to them. If I can somehow
surmount these challenges and obtain her, I'll have all the answers I
need. Answers to so many of those questions, particularly how to finish
the crowning achievement of my inventions."

On the story below them rested his crowning achievement: a large boxish
contraption bursting at the seams with gears, levers, gauges and every
manner of technically mystifying apparatus conceivable by man. If you
were to go to the Interdimensional Patent Office and look up patent
\#4502935-308, you would find the following title: "A device for
rehabilitating the expired physical entities of juvenile Homo sapiens."

Most people called it the Zombie Machine. It was the machine that
maintained his entire army of undead children. And it was the children
that made all of his experiments possible. His studies were absurdly ambitious, and required a vast amount of manpower. Zombies had been the
perfect tool. By now he had filled the world with his remarkable lab
assistants, though most of them were only loosely under his control.

As can be imagined, the doctor was very paranoid when it came to his
Zombie Machine, and he guarded it with a considerable array of hidden
traps and scientifically enhanced hexes, not to mention the teams of
zombie children that maintained his laboratory's operations and his own
watchful eyes.

And yet somehow a creature managed to slip past all of those things. A
creature wrapped in shadow and enigma. A creature more cunning than any
invention the doctor would ever devise. In short, a monkey.

The monkey climbed to the top of the machine and eyed the obfuscated
collection of controls like most other monkeys would look at a mountain
of bananas. The machine hummed softly, as though beckoning for him to
play with it. After studying the contraption for some time, he eagerly
began to fiddle with its buttons and levers. With a few modifications
and a strategically placed wrench, a small door slid open at the top of
the machine and the monkey dropped inside.

He landed on a pile of papers that was far deeper than the size of the
machine. Each of the papers looked like some sort of legal document and
were attached to the rest of the machine through translucent wires.
After rummaging through the papers for some time, he found the one he
was looking for: the one with the word "James" signed on the bottom with
big red letters. Taking a pen and notepad, he jotted down the
identification number on the top of the document and climbed out of the
machine. Once he had secured the door behind him, he climbed over to a
panel with rows of numerical digits and entered in the number from the document and then pressed a button below the panel. With
that, the machine made several creaking noises and then the word "James"
floated up above the main control panel.

The monkey smiled wickedly. Grabbing hold of a dial on the main control
panel, he twisted it all the way to the right until it snapped. Red
warning lights began to flash.

* * *

Night descended upon the Library and everyone fell asleep. Everyone,
that is, except for James. Zombies don't need sleep. They can become
unconscious, but they get their energy from things like the Zombie
Machine, not rest. Doctor Marrechian did have many of his children
configured to nocturnally shut down to conserve energy and better
coexist with the living adults of the world, but the children he sent
with Deadwick were configured to be awake most of the time. James was
one such zombie, so that the one who loved dreaming the most was the one
who slept the least.

Throughout the night, James lay just beyond the edge of camp, staring up
into nothingness. He tried and tried to remember his past, but it was a
pale blur. No matter how hard he tried to fill his mind with different
things, he could not stop thinking about Adelle. Protecting her was
proving to be an epic feat, and was requiring a great deal of attention.
He had poured so much thought into how to rescue her, thinking about her
and her well-being had become habitual.

"James! Can you hear me James?"

"Leave me alone." said James, feeling cross. "I'm trying to think."

"Of course you are! That's why I'm here!"

James looked down and then jumped in shock. He was lying on a large
mirror with his reflection waving up at him. Instantly he was on his
feet.

"Get away from me!" He shouted. Not realizing his volume until the words
were already out of his mouth, he shot a worried glance over to the
camp, but no one seemed to have heard him.

"Now James, you know that's not possible!" said the mirror image. "You
and I are one and the same."

"If you don't leave I'll tell the others!"

"Tell them what? They wouldn't be able to see me. They'd think you were
crazy."

"I'm not crazy!"

"Of course I'm not. But enough of that. You're getting off on too many
rabbit trails. We should be talking about our favorite subject."

James' decaying heart sank within him. "You don't mean---"

"Yes, Adelle! You finally found her! Isn't that wonderful! But that's
not nearly as wonderful as the fact that she's sleeping just a few paces
from this spot! Curled up under her little blanket without a shred of
fear. She's all ours!"

"No she's not!" James stated, stalking away. He turned a corner to find
himself standing before another mirror. His reflection was carrying a
grungy knife and an eager grin.

"Look at her!" said the reflection. "Look at all that skin! You wouldn't
have to kill her, just a few strokes on that canvas would be enough."

"It's never enough!" James shouted, and started to run away. But no
matter how far he ran or which way he turned, he could not evade his
reflection.

"You're just making things more difficult." said the reflection. "This
is supposed to be fun! All you're doing is putting strain on the
enchantment that is animating you. Stop fighting it!"

James was surprised to find that he was fatiguing. Zombies never tired!
But he continued onward, expending just enough energy for a wearied
"Never!"

But his reflection had not lost a drop of energy. "Admit it! You want to
kill her!"

James collapsed to the ground. "Fine! You're right; I want to kill her!
I'm a zombie! I want what every zombie in this world wants; to see her
whimpering in pain! But that is the enchantment of the Zombie Machine.
Ever since I found that book, I think I've become under the control of
two enchantments. The second enchantment is from the author of this
book, and it is deeper and better than anything I have ever known. When
I think about this book and all that it says, I no longer want to see
Adelle get hurt. I want to protect her. Protect her from everyone, and
that includes me!"

For once the mirror image looked fearful. "Be careful, James! If you
keep fighting yourself like this you'll tear us down the middle! Then
the zombie enchantment will become mutated and we really will be crazy!
Believe me, I don't want that to happen! I'm going to follow you
wherever you go and make sure you see sense and follow your nature!"

James feebly rose to his feet.

"Fine then. Go ahead and follow me." he said, and he threw himself over
a cliff.

* * *

> Journal of Dr. Otto Marrechian - Entry #253
>
> Today I finished a machine that determines the girl's location. It
> harnesses that mysterious ability of my children to sense her presence.
> It utilizes the principle of triangulation, though in a much more
> complex manner. I have placed children across dozens of different
> dimensions. My machine monitors how strongly each of them is aware of
> the princess and prints out detailed reports of its findings. I can then
> take that data and use it to calculate a rough idea of where she is. It
> isn't a very fast process since I still need to do all the calculations
> by hand, but I'd rather not spend hours automating a process that will
> be obsolete once I have her.
>
> I just now finished my first run of this procedure and, assuming my
> calculations are correct, as of half an hour ago she was and probably
> still is in the Great Library.
>
> The Great Library! That is no easy fortress to surmount! I've had my eye on that treasure trove for some time and I've known that the librarian of that place has been gradually destroying
> its gateways. By now, I don't think there are any gateways
> left. But since I've known this for some time this is not a new problem
> for me. Killing the librarian or attempting to forcibly take control of
> the Library have never been viable options. The Library is an incredible
> source of power I long to harness, but it is also heavily dependent on the
> librarian. For the Library to be of any use to me he must continue doing
> his job unhindered. Thus, I did the only logical thing left for me to
> do: I published a book.

"A book? That's it! You really are a mad scientist!" said Deadwick when
he heard of the doctor's plans.

"If madness is not being constrained by what holds others from
greatness, then yes, I am mad." said the doctor. "But there is reason
behind my actions. I know Mosspuddle's great weakness." The doctor held up a
book in his hand entitled "A Book without an Author" by Otto Marrechian.
"There is something even more important to him than protecting his
library: filling it with every book ever printed. He has a copy of my
book sitting on a shelf somewhere in that vast expanse of literature.
And it is no ordinary book. In each copy I have installed a microscopic
device which can be remotely triggered to blow a hole through the fabric
of reality, creating an interdimensional rift. A rift through which you
and the children will be able to gain entrance into the Library."

"Say *what?*"

* * *

The next morning Adelle awoke to find the others already up and about.
Fugue had managed to hunt down a collection of library flora and fauna
and was using that to cook breakfast for everyone. Nearby the raven was
conversing with the dolls, possibly about some doll-like doom that
awaited them. (The dolls were very wide-eyed.)

Around that time Mr. Mosspuddle also returned from hunting, though the
target of his effort had been books. He came into the camp looking
harried and frequently glancing over his shoulder. Setting down his
burden of books, he took out a handkerchief and began to furiously wipe
his brow. There are few occupations more dangerous than that of
librarian.

"Has anyone seen James?" asked Mr. Mosspuddle.

"Oh, he spent most of the night climbing up a cliff," said the swan.
"He's almost finished. He should be here shortly."

Fugue looked up from his cooking in shock. "He's training without me?
Why didn't he tell me! I've been needing to work on my game!" He
kicked one of the toves in frustration. "All this lack of adventuring is
making me lazy!"

"But haven't we been having an adventure?" said Samantha. "Aren't we in
the middle of one right now?"

"Honey, if you call this an adventure, you ain't seen nothin' yet!"

As he spoke, James stumbled into the camp and slumped down against one
of the bookshelves.

The librarian was amazed. "James! You look even more exhausted then I
feel! How can this be? Isn't your energy source outside of you?"

"I don't know how I work. All I know is I'm tired."

"Well, what happened last night? The swan said something about
climbing."

"I think it would be best if I didn't explain." said James. He tried to
avoid meeting eyes with the librarian and noticed the raven staring at
him intently. Somehow, James was sure the raven knew something about
what James was facing. The raven seemed to know a lot of things he
didn't say.

"I won't pry." said Mr. Mosspuddle and then, spotting a good subject to
change to said, "Is that breakfast? I could use some sustenance!" With thanks he
accepted the bowl that Fugue handed him and then sat down by the fire. After
taking a few bites and complimenting Fugue's cooking, he said, "I can't shake the feeling that agents of
the wizards will be arriving any moment. My house (or what's left of it)
will be one of the first places they check. I think we should set out
for other parts of the library soon."

While Mr. Mosspuddle and James discussed where in the library to move
to, Adelle likewise sat down with a bowl of food. As she ate her
breakfast it occurred to her that she no longer felt sick. In fact, she
felt excellent. The Jillybons' effects must be waning. If they had been
in some way dampening her abilities, maybe her abilities had now
returned. She decided to experiment.

"This food is exquisite!" she said to Fugue. "Where did you learn to
cook like this?"

"Adventuring," said Fugue. "For example, I learned how to use these
spices from a Babylonian princess I helped rescue from an evil
magi-demi-god-thing. Boy could she make a cup of coffee!"

"Do you frequently rescue princesses?"

"No, not a lot. You're the first in a long while."

"Well, I know I haven't done a good job of expressing it so far, but I
really am grateful to you for rescuing me. It means a lot."

Fugue's smile broadened and he voiced a pathetic attempt at modesty.
Adelle was gracious enough to feign acceptance of this token, and then
said, "I can't wait until I get back to the City. It would mean *so*
much to me to make it to the Ball! If I were to find a way back to the
City, would you help me?"

"I would do everything in my power!" said Fugue.

Adelle had already been smiling on the outside, but now she was smiling
on the inside as well. It was working again!

Once Adelle had finished her meal, she went to where Mr. Mosspuddle was
sitting and in an innocent tone said, "Yesterday you spoke of finding a
way out of the Library but that it would take some time. Are there any
faster options you might have forgotten to mention?"

"Why yes, come to think of it, there were! Locked away in the deepest
recesses of the Library there is a certain collection of books written
by the wizard Ohm. They are powerful books, and can be used to open
doorways very quickly. However, they are demonic and I would rather not
consort with such devices. There is one other way, but it is not very
reliable. Throughout the Library there are holes through the dimension
the Library rests within. Most of these holes can be found in the outer
rooms and passageways of this dimension, areas that are so old not even
I know who built them or to what purpose. They are only one-way: things
can go out but cannot come in. And when something passes through them,
there is no way of knowing where they will land. If a person were to
fall through, they would most likely plummet to their death."

"But there is a chance of landing somewhere safe?"

"Yes, though it is a small one, and not something I would ever want to
risk your life with."

"Then with all things considered, it sounds like the books of Ohm are
our best option. You should find them right away."

"But as I've already said, they are demonic! If I take enough time I
should be able to find a safer means."

"But it is imperative that I return to the City of Orphans as soon as
possible!"

"Yes, yes. You are right. I will make all haste to locate the books of
Ohm."

James watched Adelle in wonder. What she said made sense, and yet a part
of him was screaming foul play. He found his focus shifting to the
crown. *Where had he seen it before?*

Even though Mr. Mosspuddle had said he would immediately search for the
books of Ohm, a subconscious part of his mind was against it, and looked
for a way to counter it. At the thought of looking for books, his mind drifted to the books he had just gathered, and so began
to monologue. "I am better at organizing books than wielding them." he
said. "However, I have collected a few of the books I actually know how
to utilize. Here, let me show you."

After rummaging through his bag, the toad pulled out a small booklet.

"You have probably never seen a book like this, for there is only it and
one copy in the entire world, and I own them both. It was composed by
the most brainlessly arrogant person to ever live in all of history.
Because of this fact, this book has acquired several unique qualities
that have more than once come in handy. For instance,"

He opened the book and flipped to a certain page. Suddenly, the book
grew in size until it was well larger than the toad.

"Wow!" said Fugue. "How in the world did you do that?"

"It was the book's doing, not mine. Even though I cannot stress enough
the insignificance of this book, we are currently witnessing its
perceived self-image. It is so confident in its own value that it alters
the reality around it and in effect makes itself larger. However, if you
were to flip through its pages, you would find that there were no more
words or insights added to it from this shift in reality. All that is
affected is the book's physical size, for it lacks the imagination to
give itself any real depth.

"But there's more." said the toad. He let go of the book and it remained
hovering in the air. "Due to the incredibly obtuse nature of this book,
once it is opened and affecting the world around it, its cover and
binding are utterly immobile. If the entire world were to collapse upon
it, we could safely rest beneath it. Its opinions are so preconceived
and inconsiderate that nothing can affect it."

Fugue gave the book a push. It was like pushing a stone wall. "But if
the book can't move, how do you close it?" he asked.

"The cover is immobile, but the pages can still move. All I have to do
is flip to the index, which is the most pathetic piece of the book and
lacks the self-confidence possessed by its other parts." The librarian
did so and the book immediately deflated back into his hand. "Sometimes
even the most misguided of creations can be a useful tool ... as long as
you never use them for their intended purposes."

"Like the books of Ohm?" asked Adelle.

"No." said Mr. Mosspuddle. "Conjuring a doorway is exactly the sort of
thing they were made for." This was followed by a foreboding silence.

"But here," Mr. Mosspuddle continued, again reaching into his bag. "I
can show you an example of a book that *is* good to use as it was
intended ... "

Adelle gently put her hand on his arm. "This is all very fascinating,
but you can just as well demonstrate these wonders another time. Right
now I think we are ready to begin searching for the books of Ohm."

"Yes. Of course! We will set out immediately. Just let me gather my
things."

*This doesn't make sense,* thought James. Once again, he found
himself staring at the crown, trying to figure out where he had seen it.
It taunted him. Him and his rotting memory. He tried to work his way
backward. He had a vague recollection of an orphanage. And walking
through the streets of a city with someone. They were going to some
place. And then they were coming back from that place. And the person
had something new ...

And then it dawned upon him where he had first seen that crown. It all
came together. Suddenly, James leaped forward and snatched the crown
from her head.

"What are you doing? Give that back to me!" Adelle shouted. She threw
herself at the crown but James dodged out of the way. "Give it back! You
have no right to take that from me!"

"It's evil!" James said. "It's manipulating all of us. I'm sorry but you
can't wear it anymore."

"You wicked little corpse! You said you wanted to protect me, but now
your true colors come out! You just wanted my crown!"

"I don't want your stupid crown!"

"Well then why are you still holding on to it?"

James looked at the crown. "Good point." he said, and threw it out a
window.

"No!" Adelle screamed, running over to the window. But it was too late.
The crown had already disappeared into an endless oblivion of clouds and
half-light. Adelle stood for some time in shock. When she finally turned
around there were tears in her eyes.

"I hate you!" she shouted.

Suddenly there was a deep rumbling sound and everything began to shake.
Vibrant colors began to shoot through the air and the world around them
began to distort like a crinkling tapestry.

"What's happening!?!" James shouted.

"I haven't the slightest idea!" Mr. Mosspuddle shouted back.

* * *

At that same moment, on the roof of Otto Marrechian's laboratory, the
doctor, Deadwick, and several zombie children were staring at the newly
formed rift in time and space that was floating before them.

"What I don't understand," Deadwick was saying, "is if the explosion
took place in the Library, what's part of the hole doing here?"

"Because this place is a magnet for that sort of thing. The explosion
probably blew holes all over Marloth, and I was sure at least one of
them would be in this dimension. I just didn't figure it would be on my
roof."

They continued to stare at the rift. It was slowly moving around
unstably.

"Is it safe?" asked Deadwick.

"By no means."

"And I'm supposed to go in it?"

"Yes!"

There was a pause.

"You don't pay me enough for this!"

* * *

After much commotion, the Library slowly settled down to its normal
state.

"What was that?" Samantha asked.

"I already said I don't know!" growled Mr. Mosspuddle. "I've never seen
or heard of anything like it."

"Where's Adelle?" James asked. Everyone looked around. She was nowhere
in sight.

"Don't tell me she's gone!" James groaned. "Did anyone see her go?"

Head shaking all around.

"Well does anyone have any idea which way she went?"

"I don't know," said Fugue. "I was trying to avoid eye contact."

"Why are you asking?" said the raven. "You said you could sense where
she was!"

"I could, but the awareness dimmed the moment I took the crown from
her."

"Well maybe snatching that hood ornament wasn't the greatest idea."

"Wait," said James. "I think I can still feel something ... "

"I was just trying to be considerate." Fugue muttered. "There was all
that shouting and---"

"Quiet!" said James. He stood poised for several moments as though
listening for something.

"I think I know where she is." He paused for another moment and then
bolted down one of the aisles. "Wait!" said Mr. Mosspuddle. "We're not
ready yet!" but James had already disappeared.

Mr. Mosspuddle began to frantically gather together his books. "We need
to keep together!" he told the others. "Whatever happened, it was most
definitely magical, and the odds are it was not a pleasant sort of
magic."

"Well I hope it does unpleasant things to that zombie!" said Miss
Perrywinkle. "He threw away our mistress' crown! That's probably what
caused all of this commotion!"

Mrs. Gingersmile nodded. "I knew he was a scoundrel."

"No he's not!" said Fugue. "He's going to rescue her!"

While the others argued about zombies and crowns, the raven flew to the
top of one of the towering bookshelves to examine their surroundings. He
could sense danger, and he had an idea what it was. As his razor-sharp
eyes pierced through the murky gloom, he spotted what he had suspected
several aisles away.

"We have visitors!" he shouted down to his companions.

There was a sound of rushing air and one of the bookcases exploded. Then
another explosion lit a nearby aisle.

"What now?" cried Miss Perrywinkle.

"Ogres." said Fugue. "They're firing rockets. Though they aren't firing at
us."

"How do you know that?"

"Because we're still alive."

In the distance could be heard cries and machinery and the sounds of
death and destruction. A single zombie child rushed past them and was
mowed down by machine gun fire.

The raven dropped back to ground level and shouted to the others "What
are you waiting for? *Run!*"

* * *

Adelle ran blindly down one of the rickety pathways of wood that wound
their way through the Library. Her emotions were turbulently fighting
with each other: anger, hurt, loss, frustration, fear, disenchantment,
but they were all united by self-pity.

Snap! One of the boards gave way below her foot, sending her falling
through the pier and into the murky water below. The water there was
deep, so deep that she was completely submerged. After several frantic
moments of struggling she was able to push herself upward far enough for
her head to break through the surface. Gasping for breath and clinging
to one of the pilings, she tried to lift herself onto the pathway but
found that impossible. She was not strong enough, and there was an
inexplicable current trying to pull her downward.

She had to do something! Releasing her hold on the pilings, she lunged
at the nearest board of the walkway. She caught it, but her hand slipped
and she fell back down beneath the surface of the water.

It was getting harder to fight the current. Her limbs were growing weary
and she was not breaking the surface as quickly as she had earlier. She
was just starting to panic when James' outstretched hand pierced the
water and motioned for her to grab on.

Adelle's immediate reaction was to avoid the hand. She didn't want
anything to do with him. But that was quickly pushed aside by her
increasing need for air. After a moment's deliberation, she took the
proffered hand, deciding to begrudgingly accept his assistance and then
give him a piece of her mind. With remarkable ease, she was lifted out
of the water and set onto the pathway.

"I appreciate you helping me out of the water, but don't think that---"

Adelle stopped. It wasn't James at all. It was Bobby. "What are you
doing here?" she said in surprise. She suddenly found herself very
embarrassed, standing there soaked and bedraggled.

"At the moment I'm trying very hard not to get incinerated by ogres."
was Bobby's reply. As if to illustrate his point, there was another
explosion, this time as close as the end of the aisle. Books and wood
flew everywhere.

"Come on!" said Bobby, taking her hand. "We've got to keep moving!"

* * *

As the heroes made their way through the Library, one of the dolls
commented on how nice it was after all this time in the dark to finally
see the sun rising again. Mr. Mosspuddle looked back.

"That's no sunrise!" he cried. "That's fire! They're destroying my
Library!" Despite all of the dampness, somehow part of the Library had
still managed to catch on fire.

"Better it than us." said Fugue, a sentiment the toad was slow to agree
with.

"We can't keep up this pace!" Miss Perrywinkle moaned.

"*Ohhhh* no!" said Fugue. "You dolls are *not* going to slow us down!"

After some hasty debate, it was agreed that one of the dolls would ride
in Fugue's pack, another in Mosspuddle's, and one would ride the raven.
The swan did not need any assistance.

And so they continued in this fashion. Periodically a zombie child
would jump out at them and Fugue would blow it away with his firearm.
This always had the awkward consequence (considering Fugue's lack of
weight and the impressive force his weapon employed) of sending Fugue
flying backwards and crashing into one thing or another, be it a
bookcase, a fellow adventurer, or both. Thankfully, both he and the doll
mostly consisted of cloth so there was little harm done to them by these
brief travels.

At one point they ducked into a stone corridor, made another turn, and
nearly ran into an ogre. At first its back was turned to them, but on
hearing their approach it rotated around to face them, revealing a
massive Hexadecagun cradled in its beefy hands.

"They're everywhere!" shouted Samantha.

The ogre growled. The barrels of the gun began to spin as the ogre
hefted it before him, aiming it at the hapless adventurers. Without a
moment to loose, Mr. Mosspuddle threw the most obtuse book in the world
open in front of them. The book expanded just as the weapon began to
discharge its rain of death. Bullets bounced and ricocheted down the
corridor, but they were all deflected by the literary shield.

"This is getting exciting!" said Fugue.

* * *

The monkey frowned. The sensors he was observing had dropped several
points within the past half hour. Something must have happened to weaken
Adelle's aura. Now James would be milder. That wasn't good. This called
for extreme measures.

Carefully he made his way back to the machine. But instead of climbing
inside, he simply pushed a few buttons and adjusted a few levers. No
more of this singling out zombies stuff; that could only go so far. It
was time to pump up the juice for all of them.

* * *

Suddenly Bobby stopped and turned toward Adelle. Adelle likewise stopped
and was puzzled by his sudden concentration on her. "Is everything all
right?" she asked.

"Yes. Everything is fine." Adelle could feel his eyes as he looked her
up and down. "Everything is perfect."

He was already standing next to her, but somehow he managed to step
closer. Adelle's heart began to beat faster. He was about to say more
but was interrupted as more children arrived.

"The princess!" they all gasped.

Bobby tried to restrain his anger. "Can't you give us a moment alone?"

"And what? Let you have all the fun? Not a chance!"

Bobby turned to face them and he looked ready to fight.

"Wait!" said Osmand. "If Deadwick finds out---"

Bobby cut him short. "Deadwick's not here. He doesn't know where we are,
and he won't know what we do."

The children gave him murderous looks, but none of them took a step
closer.

"Excuse me," said Adelle. "I'm a little out of the loop as to what
everyone's talking about."

Bobby looked back at her and gave a reassuring smile. "Let's first get
you further away from this war zone and then I'll show you everything."

* * *

James turned a corner and found himself in a room lined with mirrors.
Mirrors! James had a lousy track record with those things. He turned to
leave but could no longer find the doorway he had come through. He was
completely surrounded by glass.

"Is this some kind of illusion?" he asked.

"I dunno." said his reflection. "I was kind of hoping you were the
illusion."

* * *

The children hurried down one passageway after another and gradually
left behind any hint of the activity going on in the more central parts
of the Library. They were now in the older, abandoned sections of the
Library dimension. Bobby led the way with Adelle close beside him. The
other children followed a short distance behind. Though none of them
wanted to acknowledge it, they were all afraid of him.

"You don't know how hard it is to be me." Bobby said suddenly to Adelle,
not slowing his pace.

"What do you mean?" Adelle asked with great concern.

"So much is expected of me. I perform far beyond every other person in
the world, and yet people eventually take that for granted. They don't
realize that I have needs too. I push myself and endlessly sacrifice,
and they give me so little in return."

"I had no idea!" said Adelle. "I thought you had everything you wanted."

Bobby looked at her again. "No." he said slowly. "Not everything."

There was a pause and then Bobby continued. "Sometimes I need to do
their job for them. When they don't pay me, I need to take the payment
from them. It's like I'm protecting them from themselves; making sure
they do the right thing."

"I'm not sure I understand. Are you talking about *stealing?*"

"No. Certainly not. I can't steal anything that rightfully belongs to
me, now can I?"

"No. I suppose you can't."

"Exactly. And I have certain needs that others have ignored. Needs that
they don't want me to fill. But I feel like I am suffocating! They don't
care about me!"

"I care about you!" said Adelle.

They stopped in a room constructed entirely out of old wood. Bobby
turned to face Adelle.

"Do you care enough to help me?" he asked her. "Will you give me what I
need?"

"I'll do anything for you!"

"Thank you.  That means a lot."

"So what should I do?"

Bobby gently grabbed her shoulder and leaned her against the wall.

"Scream for me."

* * *

Suddenly James froze.

Crying. He could hear crying in the distance. It was a girl.

The reflection jumped up in excitement. "You heard that, didn't you!
She's in pain! It's all their doing. You know what that means,
don't you?"

"I should go save her?" James asked feebly.

"No! You should join them!"

James could feel his discipline waning. He needed help. Reaching into
his knapsack, he rummaged for Marloth. It wasn't there! He must have
left it with Mr. Mosspuddle! A fresh layer of fear began to creep over
James, but he did his best to sound confident. "We've already been
through this routine. I don't want to hurt her, and you can't make me."

Up to that point the reflection had been smiling, but suddenly the smile
turned into a snarl. The reflection slammed its fist against the mirror.

"I want her, and if I want her then so do you!" He hit
the mirror again.

It began to crack.

"What was that!" James blurted. The reflection smiled again and began to
repeatedly beat against the mirror. "I'm coming out!" he said. More
cracks appeared in the mirror.

"Stop it!" said James. "Stay away!"

The reflection continued his pounding with vicious enthusiasm. "Once I'm
free there will be no more of these stupid fights. You'll be me again
and finally get what you really want." A piece of glass hit the ground.

James was not sure where the voice came from, but he heard someone say,
"Don't look at him!" James turned around to see the speaker, but the
mirror was there instead.

"I can't!" he shouted. "I can't escape him! He was right all along: he
is me! When I hear her in pain I want to increase it, and when he breaks
loose I will too!"

"The reflection is the dead James. You have been given life. Embrace
it!"

"But how?"

"By looking at me."

"But who are you? Where are you?"

"I'm standing right in front of you. But all you can see is that mirror.
And Adelle in pain."

"Whoever you are out there talking to James" the reflection called out,
"I suggest you run away before I break free. James is about to get
violent!"

James cringed. "The mirror is giving way!"

"Look past the mirror!"

The reflection backed up for one final lunge.

"Mr. Tralvorkemen! I need you!"

The mirror shattered. Except that it shattered inward, not outward.
Tralvorkemen stood where it had once stood, following through a powerful
swing with an equally powerful axe. The reflection cowered in horror.
Tralvorkemen raised the axe a second time and cut the reflection in two.
The separate halves dissipated into a glittering fog of reflections that
slowly faded into the surrounding darkness.

"I'm free!" said James.

"No, not yet." said Tralvorkemen. "Right now more evil is accumulated
around you than has ever been before. The only thing keeping it at bay
is me."

"Then what am I to do? I need to rescue Adelle!"

"Don't focus on her! That is exactly what they want. That is how they
will get to you. Rescue her, yes, but don't look at her. Don't look at
yourself. Don't look at the other children. Look at me! Look at
Marloth!"

"But how can I help her if I'm not concentrating on her?"

"I will take care of that. The real question is: do you trust me?"

James hesitated and then said "Yes, I do."

"Then go." said Tralvorkemen. "Keep me in front of you and I will do the
rest."

* * *

The monkey dizzily pushed away pieces of debris and put a hand to its
head, trying to stop the spinning. It had been blown clear across the
room. Smoke was billowing from the zombie machine. The machine was still
functioning, but the control panel and a few other parts were in bits
and pieces all over the room. Where had that surge of energy come from?
The monkey would have investigated, but the sound of voices drew near.
The monkey pulled itself to its feet and stumbled off. This looked like
a good time to get out of there.

* * *

James ran. He ran faster than he had ever run in his life. He did not
know his way through the Library, nor could he sense Adelle, and yet he
knew he was heading straight toward her. He knew she was just inside the
room in front of him. Without skipping a beat, James threw himself
forward and burst through the rotting wall. Everyone in the room had
just enough time to turn in surprise as he came hurtling across the room
and past Bobby, knocking the boy off his feet. As James flew by, he
caught a glimpse of Adelle. She was alive, but barely conscious.

James didn't have much time to see her distress. He landed on the far
corner of the room, sprung to his feet, and immediately engaged the
group of zombie children. Bobby met him first and began to slash at him
with lightning speed. James moved even faster. Nay, not faster, it was
as though James already knew every move the boy was about to make---as
though he had already moved out of the way before Bobby swung. Within
two blinks of an eye, Bobby was on the ground stunned and James was
taking on the rest of the group at once. They could not comprehend his movements. Up to six attacks were leveled at him at once and yet he would
shift to a position in space to avoid every one of them and at the same time
retaliate with precise blows of his own. They had never seen anything
like it. James marveled, but not at himself. He marveled at the battle
playing out before him; he felt like he was watching from a distance. He
was not the one fighting. He was simply a channel, a channel through
which an immeasurable power was flowing.

Bobby rose again and tried to attack James from behind. James ducked
beneath the blow, grabbed the outstretched arm, and threw Bobby over his
shoulder and across the room.

Meanwhile, Adelle was curled up against the adjacent wall, watching the
fight with wide-eyed horror. She didn't know what to think. She forgot
about her injuries.

As she watched James struggling to keep the zombie children on one side
of the room and her on the other, she saw more children
arriving and climbing up the walls and around the area of conflict.

"James, above you!" Adelle shouted.

James looked up just in time to see a group of zombie children dropping
down on top of him. It should be reiterated how nearly the entire room
and surrounding structure was constructed from wood. In eons past it had
probably been quite sturdy, but by the present time it had become little
more than an aged, rotting carapace. When three zombie children landed
in unison on James' head, the floor beneath finally said (with a
creaking of splinters), "That's it, I'm out of here!" and dropped out of
sight. This caused several of the zombie children to plummet through the
floor, and then on through the floor beneath that, and then on into the
endless oblivion beyond that. As for James, he was still grappling
tightly with a handful of the zombie children, so that when the floor
suddenly disappeared beneath him he found himself swinging at the end of
a chain of zombie children, anchored by the few children who still had a
floor beneath them.

Like a pendulum, James swung back and forth a few times, but he knew
that wouldn't last long. Already most of the children not part of the
inhuman chain were climbing down the wooden framework of the building so
they could get a shot at James. One of them threw themselves at James
and missed. That one disappeared through the floor below with a shower
of splintered wood.

All of this was very challenging for James, for as more and more
children gathered around the edges of the lower room, he was still
struggling with the two zombie children who were holding him in the air.
Each of them was holding him in one hand, and a knife in the other, and
he was desperately trying to minimize the number of stabs he received
from them while at the same time trying to stay out of the way of the
oncoming children.

Up above, Adelle was just thinking about making her escape when Osmand
suddenly loomed up behind her and pinned her against the wall. Osmand
was not strong, even as a zombie, and normally Adelle may have had a
chance at fighting him off. But in her current state, it was all
Adelle could do to remain conscious.

"Please, Osmand!" Adelle begged of him. "Please don't hurt me!"

"Oh, Adelle!" he hissed under his breath. "You always were such a tease!
Always, *always* teasing! But I caught the signals. I know what you
*really* wanted."

"I wanted you to know people cared for you! I wanted to be friends!"

Osmand didn't seem to hear, and didn't pause in his speech. "Teasing,
teasing. You are *so* good at it! Both flaunting and demure, wanting to
stay locked away, and wanting to reveal everything. Driving me insane to
find out what's beneath the surface. Do *you* even know what's beneath
the surface? Well now we can find out together ... "

Suddenly, a hand burst through the floor beneath them, grabbed Osmand by
the foot, and yanked him through the floor.

Once she had regained a hint of breath, Adelle carefully bent down and
peered over the edge of the broken floor. James was still dangling in a
web of zombie children, grappling with Bobby and Osmand on either side.

Adelle did not have much time to watch. The remaining strip of floor she
was kneeling on began to groan and shudder. Adelle clung to it tightly
as though begging it not to abandon her, but it was too old to care
anymore. With a stomach-dropping *crack,* the remaining floor
disintegrated beneath her. James heard a cry and turned to watch the
princess fly past him. He tried to reach out but he was held back by the
undead lattice he was now a part of. Helplessly they each watched as the
other hurtled away into the distance, James disappearing far above and
Adelle disappearing far below into the darkness that quickly enveloped
her.

* * *

Marloth is a most difficult place to map. That is largely due to the
ambivalent humor of its geography. In Marloth, points in space still
have a spatial relationship to one another, though that relationship is
better defined by ideas than coordinates. For example, somewhere just
past disenchantment (and a little north of the Isle of Mute Salesmen),
lies a particularly mysterious shore. No one knows its location, for it
is very hard to find, and once found, it is very hard to keep found. It
is the shore where all things that are lost or broken sooner or later
are collected. Most of these things are lost for good reason: they are
utter nonsense. This is the place where much of the incongruencies of
Marloth are conveniently swept away, leaving behind the not-so-absurd
bits for people to enjoy. If anything still alive were to ever set foot
on this shore, all sorts of ridiculous and hard to comprehend ideas
might leak out into the rest of Marloth. That is why it is best that
such a place never be found, and is cloaked in oblivion. This shore has
no name, because if it did it would be Forgotten.

It was here that Adelle found herself, lying face down in the sand.

She did not know how long she had been unconscious. It felt like years.
She hurt all over, but she was surprised to find that she was not
thinking about that. Nor was she thinking about how cold and wet she
was. Nor was she thinking about how she missed her crown.

She was wondering where James was. Still a little dizzy, she pulled
herself to her feet and discovered a whole new array of aches and pains.
She touched her face and found that the blood had dried. She was sure
she looked awful, but she didn't care about that. Despite her body's
protests, she set out along the shore to see if she could find the
zombie child.

Then she cupped her hands over her mouth to hold back a scream.

* * *

"Yes, I can imagine how fascinating some of these random objects would
be to you, but we do not have time to stop and look at ...
*curiosities*." This was the librarian. He wanted to say *'garbage'*,
but he was sure the dolls would be offended by that.

The dolls did their best to communicate their opinion of the librarian
through sour expressions and not-so-subtle whining, but they followed
behind him as he led their search along the shoreline. Fugue was also
with them, looking unusually haggard and in need of a nap. The raven was
nowhere to be seen.

Eventually they came across the princess. She was sitting on an upside
down bucket and staring vacantly out at the water.

"Princess Adelle!" the toad called out. If she heard him, she did not
acknowledge it.

They hurried closer, and as they drew near, the librarian could tell
that something had changed. Something had broken inside of the little
girl before them. Not to mention the damage on the outside. All of them
were shocked to see her condition. The wounds on her face would surely
turn to scars if not attended to.

"Adelle! It's us!" cried Samantha.

Adelle finally noticed them and rose absently. "Hello." she said, not
looking at anyone in particular.

"Don't get up. You're hurt!" said Mr. Mosspuddle, but she didn't resume
her seat.

"I'm fine." she said.

"No, you are not! What happened? Where is James?"

"He's everywhere. Or at least he was."

"What do you mean? *What happened?*"

"I don't know what happened. The other children must have done it to
him. He's---"

Adelle struggled to get the words out.

"He's in pieces. They were swept up on shore. It took me some time to
realize they were him. I feel so sick."

She quivered and looked about to faint. Mr. Mosspuddle was at first
taken aback by this news, but quickly recovered enough to reach out and
gently keep her from falling.

"Can you take us to where he—the places he is resting?" the librarian asked.

She nodded. "I gathered everything together."

She led them to a small cave that looked out over the beach. In the cave there was a bundled up blanket. Adelle turned her
face away as Mr. Mosspuddle untied the bundle and examined its contents.

"That is him," said the librarian. "The connection
between the Zombie Machine and James has been severed. This would happen
whenever James' physical form deviated too far from his original
form."

"Is there anything that can be done?" asked Samantha.

"In theory, if we were to restore James close enough to his original
form, the connection would automatically be reestablished. Then he would
be back to his reanimated self."

The swan looked at the librarian warily. "How would you know so much
about this Zombie Machine?"

"Because its general schematics are on public record at the
Interdimensional Patent Office---a resource I have had many dealings
with."

"That's good enough for me." said Mrs. Gingersmile. "What do we have to
do to fix him?"

"Princess Adelle has already gathered the pieces together, and while
they are in a terrible state, it looks like there is still enough of him
intact. All that remains to be done is to actually sew the parts back
together. I myself know little of sewing. Fugue, I am sure you are
knowledgeable about such matters since you yourself
are---well---basically a collection of stitches."

"Who me? I didn't make myself! All I do is go on adventures; how should
I know anything about sewing?"

"Don't look at me!" said the swan. "I don't even have hands!"

"Ooh! Ooh!" said Samantha, raising her little hand in the air and
jumping up and down. "Adelle knows how to sew! She was taught by Miss
Bethany, the bravest seamstress in the land!"

Mr. Mosspuddle turned toward Adelle. "Is that true? Could you sew
together James? *Would* you?"

Adelle looked down at the blanket. She could not help
feeling the weight of James' sacrifice. He had been telling the
truth; he really *did* want to protect her.

"I'll do it," she said. "I'll sew him back together."

After more discussion, it was noted that several items would be needed
for the procedure, and so the party set out to search for those things.
Adelle sat nearby the search, looking like she was trying fight off
sleep. As they scoured the debris, Fugue sidled over to Mr. Mosspuddle
confidentially.

"What about the girl?" asked Fugue. "Should I tie her up so she doesn't
run off again?"

"What? No!" said Mr. Mosspuddle. "She seems to be coming around! If at
all possible, she should accompany us willingly. After all, she is the
heir to the throne."

"Oh," said Fugue, clearly disappointed.

As the group looked for the needed items, Mr. Mosspuddle also located a
few items that, along with help of one of his books, could be used to heal
Adelle's wounds. After some time, Adelle felt her awareness returning
and her attention clearing enough to ask the librarian how they had
found her.

"With this," said Mr. Mosspuddle, holding up the book of Marloth. "In
all the excitement, James left it with me. While most of the details of
these stories are different from our present circumstances, there are
many similarities. One of the stories in the book tells of a princess
taking refuge on a shore, a shore that no one can remember. The story
doesn't mention anyone like James, but it does tell of how a princess
was found by a band of friends."

"That would be us!" said Samantha.

"Apparently this shore has an aura that causes everyone to eventually
forget about it. There's never been any record of it in the Library, at
least that I know about, because those records would also be forgotten.
But somehow this book is able to override that magical property and tell
of this shore. Though it does not give details for how to get here."

"Then how did you find it?"

Mr. Mosspuddle opened his mouth to reply and then closed it again. "I
don't know. I forgot."

"What about all of you? What happened after I ... left?"

Mr. Mosspuddle shuddered. "It was pandemonium! Ogres and zombie children
and creatures I've never seen before all came out of nowhere! A massive
battle ensued and there were explosions everywhere! Then---throwing out
all concern for conserving energy---the wizards appeared and the carnage
was escalated to an entirely new level! I still don't know how we were
able to get away, but we did. Except for the raven: I don't know what
happened to him. We got separated in the midst of the chaos. I hope he
got out safely."

The librarian paused at this thought, and then added, "The wizards will
undoubtedly hold a greater vigilance over the Library after that affair.
That was probably the last I will ever see of my beloved Library."

"I am so sorry for you!" said Adelle. "I can only imagine how hard it
must be for you!"

"My exile from the Library has been agonizing. But at the same time,
there is a growing sense of freedom. It had never occurred to me how
much time I've poured into a library that hardly anyone ever used. I
spent most of my days reading about people living their lives, and it
has only been since I was banished from the Library and caught up in
this adventure that I began to truly live my own life."

They continued searching for supplies, and after some time Adelle raised
another question that had been bothering her. "Why are so many people
after me? What do they hope to gain? Do they all just want me dead?"

"No, I think different forces want you for different reasons. I don't
completely understand those reasons, but I have speculated much over
what they could be. For one thing, you are of royal blood. People could
be trying to gain control of the throne or destroy it. And some say that
there are magical powers behind the royal line that can be harnessed.
Then there is the fact that you are the last living child in the world.
That means---"

"What? The *only* living child? *Everyone* else is dead?"

Mr. Mosspuddle suddenly realized that he probably should have eased into
that information a little more gradually. "Yes ... you are. That is why you
may be valuable to so many people. Some may want to wipe the world of
living children, or use you because of it. The wizards speculated that
since you are the last living child in a world of imagination, your
dreams may have an amplified influence over reality, so that if someone
could control your dreams they could control the world. Some of the
wizards said there was evidence to suggest that this is all your dream,
and we are just figments of your imagination."

"You make her sound like the most powerful person in the world!" said
Mrs. Gingersmile, who was just within hearing distance.

The librarian shook his head. "All of these theories could be wrong. As
I was perusing Marloth today it made a very good point: evil is not
sane. It could very well be that Adelle is simply an ordinary little
girl and this world wants to corrupt her simply because it is evil. In
the end, that is all the reason it needs."

* * *

Deadwick sat in one corner, tending to his wounds. The doctor was
sitting at his desk looking over a pile of notes and mechanical devices.

"Why do I even listen to you?" Deadwick was grumbling.

"I said that the rift would create holes all over Marloth---I just
hadn't anticipated people so quickly sending forces through those holes.
You have to understand that the odds of such a thing happening were
absurdly low."

"You never told me there were any odds! I was worried about going
through the portal; I didn't know I should've been worried about what
was on the other side! It was hell back there! I was nearly blown to
pieces a dozen times over! And that hole is still there! At any moment
we could have an army of ogres coming down on us!"

"Yes, siege is a concern now, though the opening in this dimension isn't on the roof anymore; it's
been moving around. At the moment it is in the basement. I am not
regretting my decision to make a way into the Library, though I have to
admit: that rift is becoming a nuisance."

"Can't you seal it?"

"No, I can't. At least, I haven't figured out a way yet."

"Seems pretty stupid blowing open a back door to your evil lair."

The doctor threw up his hands in frustration. "There was no way to
predict exactly how the explosion would work! I did what I had to do and
I'll live with the consequences. I've set up temporary measures to act
as a bandage until I can determine a more permanent solution." He
motioned the goblin to a nearby workbench upon which there was a giant,
stony hand.

"This is an ogre's hand. It must have been extremely difficult to sever
from its owner but somehow my children managed it. Since then I have
been performing experiments on it and recently developed a serum that
quickly spreads throughout an ogre's tissue and deconstructs it. Very
deadly stuff. I have a dozen syringes filled with the chemical and can
give these to my children during key situations."

"The kids don't need chemicals to take an ogre down! They just need
numbers. About ten kids per ogre should do it."

"That sounds right, and most of the time that would be sufficient. But there are
occasional situations, such as the guarding of that rift, where I'd like
to ensure that any ogre who steps through will be neutralized swiftly
and with little fuss. This is my home we're talking about, and I'd like
to avoid walls getting blown up and bullets shooting out of the floor
below me."

* * *

James looked around him. Everything was fuzzy and unnaturally bright, as
if the room itself was glistening. As his vision began to come into
focus, he identified the room he was in as the orphanage infirmary. He
was lying in bed with his face bandaged. Mr. Tralvorkemen was sitting on
a chair next to the bed and reading a book.

"You're awake." said Mr. Tralvorkemen. "How do you feel?"

"Dead. I'm dreaming, aren't I?"

Mr. Tralvorkemen put the book down. "Yes. You are."

James tried to think. "The last thing I remember I was fighting dozens
of zombie children."

Mr. Tralvorkemen nodded. "You were protecting Adelle from them."

James tried to leap from the bed and fell on his back from the strain.
"Adelle! Is she safe?" Tralvorkemen put his hand on James' shoulder.

"Adelle is safe. For now. She's sewing you back together as we speak."

James relaxed, at least as much as was ever possible for him. It didn't
even occur to him to ask why he was in need of sewing. His mind was
still centered on the events at the Library.

"I saw you there!" he said suddenly. "You saved me! If it wasn't for you
I would have ... "

James stopped. He couldn't finish his sentence. He began to choke up. "I
am so sorry! Look at what I've become! It's all my fault! You gave me
everything, and I threw it all away! And I blamed you for it!"

"I gladly took the blame. It was the only way to save you."

James dissolved into tears, and the headmaster put his arms around him.
After some time, the mourning subsided, and Mr. Tralvorkemen took a
handkerchief and wiped the tears from James eyes. Then he rose and said,
"It is a beautiful day. We do not have much time, but it would be nice
to enjoy the weather while we are here. Come take a walk with me around
the orphanage."

James looked up. He felt weak and was afraid that he would not have the
strength to stand, but Mr. Tralvorkemen helped him to his feet and he
was surprised to find that he could now walk with ease. In fact, he
almost felt as though he were gliding. He followed Mr. Tralvorkemen out
into the hall, down the stairs, and into the living room.

Several children were there, sound asleep on the furniture. James
recognized Nivana on one couch, and Millamer on the floor. Catherine was
curled up in Mr. Tralvorkemen's armchair. James turned to the
headmaster.

"Why is it that zombie children want to harm Adelle so badly? I
understand we're animated by evil magic, but why so much focus on
Adelle? Why not move on to other things?"

"That involves your purpose. Do you remember the knight?"

"What knight? The one from Marloth?"

"Yes. The one who rescued the princess. Do you remember what happened
whenever the princess was endangered?"

"He was magically filled with increased energy and determination! He did
not always have the energy; it only appeared when he needed it."

"Precisely. We are in a twisted version of that same story. Like the
knight, you have increased energy when Adelle is in distress so that you
can protect her. But unlike the knight, your zombie nature cares nothing
for that end goal of protection. All it cares about is the thrill.
Adelle gets hurt, the zombie nature grows in energy, and it seeks to
cause her more pain, thus generating more energy, until the princess is
ultimately lost. Your zombie enchantment is still drawn to the princess,
but no longer to save her. As with most everything in this world, the
end is severed from the means."

"But that's not my only enchantment, is it? There's another one. A good
one! It's what makes me want to protect her!"

"Correct. The other is *my* enchantment. It is a conduit between
this story and the original. It connects you to what you were meant to
be."

They continued through the front door and out into the yard. It was a
beautiful day. The sun was shining and birds were flying about happily.
The flowers in the garden were just beginning to bloom. But all of this
only extended to the boundaries of the orphanage. Beyond the walls, the
city looked dark and colorless. Curious, James walked over to the wall
and looked through a small opening in the gate.

Outside, the city was a smoldering shell of its former self. Through the
waves of smoke he could make out the blackened remains of buildings and
coaches. Bodies were strewn across the street. Hideous monsters roamed
the carnage. Some of those monsters were zombie children. One of them
spotted James through the gate and looked straight at him.

James bolted away from the opening and hurried back to the headmaster's
side. "Why would Otto make such things?" James asked him. "Why would he
make us evil?"

"He did not intend for you to be evil. He thought he could harness evil
without being tainted by it. He was wrong. He doesn't like creating
murderers, but he counts that a small price to pay for his work."

"*A small price?* What could be worth so much death and destruction? Why
is he doing all of this?"

"He wants to be me." said Tralvorkemen. "I think you of all people can
relate."

It hurt to acknowledge it, but James could relate. He had not simply
tried to imitate Tralvorkemen, he had tried to replace him.

They continued back into the house and ascended to the roof. From there
James could better see the crumbling world beyond the orphanage. The
children's dreams of leaving the orphanage and setting out into the
world seemed silly now.

"I have one more question." said James. "Couldn't you have stopped me?
Couldn't you have prevented all of this tragedy?"

Tralvorkemen sighed. "James, I can't adequately answer that. The real me
has all the answers, but I am not the real me, only a pale shadow of who
I am."

"I don't understand. You are Mr. Tralvorkemen, aren't you?"

"I *am* Edward Tralvorkemen, but I am also an incomplete translation.
All you've seen of me has been incomplete and distorted. But you *have*
been given a means of seeing the real me."

Tralvorkemen motioned downward. James looked and for the first time
noticed that he was holding Marloth in his hands.

"That book you are holding, it is one hundred percent pure and genuine.
If you want to know the real me, read that book." As he spoke, the light
grew diffuse and sounds became distant. The headmaster rose to his feet.

"This dream is coming to an end, but we will meet again, and when we do,
I will be more real. The closer you get to the original story, the
clearer I become. As for what you see before you, I'm a fading memory of
a past you never knew you had."

And then everything blurred.

* * *

James sat up dizzily and looked around. He was in a cave. Mr. Mosspuddle
was sitting nearby, surrounded by open books and shifting his gaze from
one to the next. Then he noticed James.

"You're awake, and alive!" said the toad. "Or, at least sort of alive.
I'm sure you have many questions."

James was still very disoriented. "Adelle." was all he managed to say.

"She's safe. And nearby. She had many injuries, but with the help of
the swan and one of my books we were able to heal them. Her scars are
nearly gone, and will completely fade with time. You, however---your
injuries were much more severe."

"That doesn't matter." said James. "I'm used to injury."

"Not like this! We found you in pieces! You were as lifeless as a
doornail. But Princess Adelle gathered them and sewed them together
again. There *were* a few bits missing so we had to substitute cloth and
other random materials to fill the gaps."

Fugue appeared and joined in updating James about what had happened
the past few days. But James wasn't concerned about what he had
missed.

"Where is Adelle now?"

Adelle was sitting on the rocky slope above the cave and gazing out over
the water. She had been doing a lot of that lately. Her mind was a
washing machine of thoughts. As she was thus employed, one of those
thoughts materialized as it stepped out of the cave below her and looked
around. Her heart leapt within her. He was alive! Then another of the
thoughts she had been struggling with rose to the surface: what if she
had made a mistake? Had she reanimated a hero or a monster?

Before she knew it, James had spotted her and was climbing up the slope
to where she was sitting. What should she do? If she had been rescued by
a truly living boy and he had sustained injury in the process and yet
had lived through it, she would have thrown her arms around him, but
this was a little more complicated. As he approached, she decided to
receive him with cool reserve, a thing she had never been very good at.

"Thank you for putting me back together." James said when he arrived
beside her.

Adelle didn't look up. "You make it sound like Humpty Dumpty---I mean
... you're welcome."

James sat down nearby and asked her how she was doing.

"Terrible!" Adelle replied miserably. "Mr. Mosspuddle informed me that
I'm the only living child left in this world! All the other children are
zombies! I feel so alone! But who am I kidding? I've always been
alone---I've just spent my life trying to distract myself from seeing
it."

James wanted to say something comforting, but he wasn't very good at
that sort of thing. Instead, he just stood there awkwardly. It was
Adelle who continued the conversation.

"James, why did they want to hurt me?"

"It's their nature. Seeing others in pain gives them more energy."

"Are all zombie children like that?"

James clenched his teeth, hating his sense of honesty. "Yes." he said.

"Do you want to hurt me?" Despite her question, she did not look scared.

"No!" James said quickly. "I mean---yes, but mostly no! I *am* enchanted
by an evil spell, like all zombie children, but I also have another
enchantment---a *good* one. The enchantments are battling over which can
control me, and the good one is winning."

Adelle didn't look convinced.

"It's Mr. Tralvorkemen," James continued. "He somehow enchanted me
through his book. When I read his stories of epic heroes, I want to be
like them; more like him. But the longer I am away from the book, the
fairytales fade and I start to become more ... like the way I was."

There was a long pause that Adelle did not bother to fill. James finally
continued. "As long as I have the book, the good enchantment will be
strong and everything should be alright. I'll protect you from the other
children."

Adelle stood up in frustration. "I am grateful for you rescuing me from
those zombies; really, I am. But I am so tired of needing to be
protected! Of being helpless all the time! Mr. Mosspuddle has been
telling me about how this whole zombie thing works; about how your
strength and agility is determined by magic instead of things like
muscles. Apparently even a little zombie girl half my age could pick me
up and throw me across the room! I'm pathetic!"

Once again, James was not sure what to say.

Adelle composed herself. "I am going to try very hard
to forget about all of this blackness, if even for just a little while.
Look, there are the dolls further down the beach. Maybe they will cheer
me up."

She set off in their direction. James did not follow her. He remained
there for some time, once again feeling the weight of his own inability.
How could a creature of evil like him give her any good? Yes, he had
just rescued her, but he had been a razor's breadth away from doing the
opposite. He could not escape the vague memories of the atrocities he had committed
before finding that book.

But inside him loomed a guilt even larger than the pain of his career as
an undead minion. The more he read Marloth, the more clearly he
remembered the orphanage and what he had done there. Part of him told
him that Mr. Tralvorkemen had taken care of everything, and that he no
longer needed to worry about the past, but James was unable to fully
embrace that idea. He was still being driven forward by the guilt of his
mistakes. No matter how hard he tried, he could not shake the feeling
that somehow the entire fallen world was his fault.

* * *

When Adelle met up with the dolls, they were busy organizing the debris
into different piles and from these piles constructing some form of
building.

"What are you doing?" Adelle asked them.

"Making a house." said Mrs. Gingersmile. "You should help us! This is
something you will have to learn one day when you have a husband and
children of your own. Every good wife and mother knows how to be a
homemaker."

At this Adelle's countenance fell. "I don't want to be a mother
anymore." All four dolls looked up in shock.

"How can you say such a thing?" Mrs. Gingersmile scolded her.

"Because now I know what it's really like. To have someone that just
takes and takes from you."

"Is this about the Jillybons?" the swan asked her. "Because a baby is
completely different from a Jillybon."

"How so? Is it less demanding? Is it less greedy?"

"It's not about greed, but need!" said Mrs. Gingersmile. "Babies are
helpless! They need their mothers!"

"Jillybons are just as helpless. They need people like me to suck the
life out of!"

"Children are precious gifts! We were *made* to care for
them. We were never meant to care for Jillybons."

"I don't know about that, but even if there is *technically* a
difference between children and Jillybons, they don't *feel* any
different."

The swan considered for a few moments. "Feelings aren't always true.
Look at us dolls; are we evil?"

"No. You may not be perfect, but you certainly aren't evil."

"That's what most people used to believe. But the toymaker corrupted so
many playthings and gave them such a reputation that now people
automatically assume I and my sisters here are likewise evil. We did not
do anything to gain this reputation. Jakob Damond imposed it on us."

"I am sorry for you and your situation, but what does that have to do
with Jillybons?"

"You are viewing children the same way other people view us: harboring
feelings that we did not create; associating evils with us that we were
never involved with."

"I respect your opinions, but once again, one of the noblest people I
have met is being vilified by people who can't possibly know much about
him. Am I to believe that you too are suddenly experts on philosophy and
morality?"

Mrs. Gingersmile shook her head. "We may not know much about books and
magic and philosophy, and maybe we don't know that much about Jakob
Damond, but one thing we dolls know about is motherhood. Motherhood is
about Love. That means giving to your child without expecting anything
from them in return. That is *beautiful."*

"I'm sorry, but even if children are better than Jillybons, I can't see
what is so beautiful about giving everything you have to someone who
doesn't give anything in return."

That was the last straw for Miss Perrywinkle; her temper snapped like a
twig. "Young lady, it is time *somebody* told it to you straight: you
are more selfish than any child I have *ever* met! All you speak of is
what you want and what people can give you! You are the *real*
Jillybon!"

The effect of this speech was like dunking Adelle's head in freezing
water. Her heart was cut to the quick. With water filling her eyes she
fled from their presence. After this the dolls debated amongst
themselves as to whether Miss Perrywinkle had been too harsh, and while
all of them to some degree believed that Adelle had needed that message,
even Miss Perrywinkle admitted she had spoken more out of anger than
kindness, and was determined to make things right.

Sometime later Miss Perrywinkle found Adelle curled up in a corner of
the beach in much distress. Miss Perrywinkle climbed beside the girl and put
her stubby arms around her tenderly.

"I'm sorry, dearie! I shouldn't have spoken so! You are a good person; I
have seen you act selflessly on many occasions!"

"No! What you said before was true! I *am* selfish! Wretchedly selfish!
I am so ashamed of myself, I hardly know who I am anymore!" Adelle
sighed. "I still want to be a mother. No that's not it exactly---I
*want* myself to want to be a mother, but I can't shake away this
ugliness I feel toward it. I fear my sense of motherhood may be forever
tainted!"

"Oh dearie! What you need is to fill your head with good things. That
City filled it with so much bad." She considered for several moments.
"That book James has, you should read it. Mr. Mosspuddle has read a
number of its stories to us. They are good stories."

"I don't think bedtime stories are going to fix me," said Adelle.

"You should give it a try. It has stories about women. About mothers.
Mothers that love their children and make great sacrifices for all the
people they care for. You know some of the stories; your mother told
them to you."

At the mention of her mother Adelle felt a new pang in her heart. She
was not sure if it was loneliness, guilt, or the resurfacing of doubts
about whether her mother had ever truly loved her. She wished she had
done more to be certain of that. She was sure there were more questions
she could have asked. For the first time she felt her heart longing to
return to the castle and secure her mother's love.

* * *

Eventually it began to rain and James returned to the cave. He found Mr.
Mosspuddle and Fugue much as he had left them.

"I don't think all of your talking to Adelle about zombie children is
helping." said James. Mr. Mosspuddle looked up from his research in
bewilderment.

"She's the princess! I can't hold information from her! And even if she
wasn't of royal blood, I can't help it. She's been asking me so many
questions, and when someone asks me a question I have to answer it!"

"I'll have to remember that."

"Besides, I think she has a right to know about the things that are
threatening her life."

It was then that he noticed the rain outside.

"Where are the dolls?" he said. "They're going to soak like sponges if
they don't return to the cave soon. And Princess Adelle could catch a
cold."

"Maybe they like getting wet," said Fugue.

As they were speaking, Samantha appeared at the front of the cave. She
was carrying a large umbrella.

"Hello!" she said. "I'm here to inform you that you are all invited to
our new inn---unless you would rather spend your time in this damp,
dingy bachelor pit."

After much puzzlement and wonder, the three heroes dropped whatever it
was they had been doing and followed her into the rain.

It was difficult to see through the downpour but there appeared to be a
building down the shore.

"What is that?" said the librarian, pointing at the structure.

"That's our new inn," said the doll. "We built it today. Do you like
it?"

As they drew nearer to the inn they could see that it was a cute,
three-story building that was elevated from the ground and boasted a
porch that looked out over the water. They climbed the short flight of
stairs up to the porch. The front door was opened by Miss Perrywinkle.

"Good evening good sirs!" she said, ushering them inside. Once she had
taken their coats, she asked them if they would like some tea."

The librarian stood there for a moment in surprise before acquiescing
with. "I suppose I would. What kinds of tea do you have?"

"Oh, we only have one kind at the present," said Samantha. "It's our
shoreside special!"

"Very well, I'll have the special."

"Good choice! That will cost you five kisses."

"Oh," said Mr. Mosspuddle, thinking she was referring to candy. "I don't
have any of that with me."

"That's all right," said Mrs. Gingersmile. "We'll put it on your line of
credit."

"Thank you." said Mr. Mosspuddle, though he was not entirely sure what
she meant.

"Your tea will be ready in a few minutes." said Miss Perrywinkle. James
and Fugue were also asked if they would like tea. James strongly
declined while Fugue asked if they offered it in gallon mugs.

Towels were provided for the guests to dry themselves. As they were
doing so, the swan came down and scolded the other dolls for charging
the librarian.

"These are our guests, and fellow adventurers! Of course we are
providing both tea and dinner without charge! Please everyone, have a
seat!"

There was a long table along near the front wall. Around the table was a wide
variety of chairs that had been collected from the shore. Mr. Mosspuddle
sat down in a chair with a back that was far taller than he was.

"Where's Adelle?" James asked.

"She's upstairs." said Mrs. Gingersmile. "She should be down shortly."

They were not long seated when there came a rapping at the front door.
Miss Perrywinkle opened it and in flew the raven. Despite his general
lack of friendliness in the past, the group was happy to see him.

"Mr. Raven!" said Samantha. "What a pleasant surprise! Where have you
been all this time?"

"I've been trying to stay alive," said the raven. "Something I never had
to worry much about until I fell in with this lot."

"Well, we are glad to have your company!" said the swan. "Would you like
some tea?"

The raven said he would and settled at one end of the table.

Next Mrs. Gingersmile asked what they would like to eat. James rolled
his eyes as Mr. Mosspuddle asked what there was to eat.

"Crumpets." said James.

"How did you know?" said Samantha, greatly impressed. "Did you use your
dead person powers to divine the menu?"

James assured them that it was nothing so supernatural.

Before long the drinks and warm crumpets were served. Fugue unpocketed a
small bottle of "tonic" he had found in the wreckage and administered a
dose of this into his mug of tea. (It was a large dose for a large mug.)
Then he searched around for some meat and cheese and made himself a
hefty crumpet sandwich. After a couple requests, the dolls were able to
provide some additional items of food that weren't on the menu.

They had just begun to dine when Adelle came down the stairs. She was
unusually distant and only half-aware of her surroundings.

The moment the librarian noticed she was in their presence, he hopped to
his feet and offered her a chair saying, "How is your royal highness
faring?" This brought her somewhat to the present. Mr. Mosspuddle was
the only person she had met outside of the castle that had a healthy
respect for royalty.

She told him she was a little distracted, but not unwell, and then took
a seat. After the dolls had served her food and drink and taken their
own seats at the table, Mr. Mosspuddle spoke up.

"Now that we are all gathered here I think this would be a good time to
discuss our future course of action."

"But what about the girly folk?" said Fugue loudly under his breath and
motioning at them with his thumb. "They'll hear everything we say ... "

"Yes," said Mr. Mosspuddle. "That was my intent. Whether
formally or informally, the dolls have become a part of our band, and
they have proved themselves very useful. As for Princess Adelle, she is
our superior and has more right to be a part of these proceedings than
any of us."

Since no one voiced any dissension, Mr. Mosspuddle
proceeded by addressing Adelle. "Earlier you disagreed that there were
forces set on causing you harm. Do you still hold that position?"

Adelle unconsciously reached up and touched the line across her cheek.
"No. I very much agree that those children back there wanted to harm me.
But I don't agree that every force you claim is against me. The toymaker
is still my friend."

This caused much interjection from many parties, but the toad did his
best to calm everyone's tempers.

"Regardless of the toymaker's intentions, I think we are all agreed that
*someone* malevolent is after the princess. I fear it is only a matter
of time before the forces seeking her will track her down to where we
are now. I'd rather not wait for that."

"But where do you think you'll take her?" said the raven. "This place is
evil---that place evil. Everywhere we turn someone seems out to get her.
You can't keep running forever."

Mr. Mosspuddle sighed. "As much as I have been trying to ignore that
fact, we seem unable to escape it. It is not enough to run from the
evil. We need something good to run toward. And I do not know where to
turn."

There was a pause as everyone mulled on this, except for James. He
already knew what he wanted to do. He had known for a while.

"We need to find the orphanage."

All eyes fell on James.

"What orphanage?" said Miss Perrywinkle.

James reached into his pack, took out Marloth, and placed it on the
center of the table. "The orphanage of Edward Tralvorkemen. It's a
sanctuary."

"But everyone in the City said that he was a wicked man!" Adelle felt
obligated to point out.

"Do you believe that he is?" asked Mr. Mosspuddle.

"I do not know what to think of him." said Adelle. "He seems to be more
of a legend than a man."

Mr. Mosspuddle picked up the book in the middle of the table and held it
reverently before them.

"Despite its being titled a collection of fairytales, I have never seen
a book that so closely corresponded with reality as does this one. The
more I read it the more everything makes sense. At this present point in
time, I would trust it more than any other piece of literature. If
Marloth says that Edward Tralvorkemen exists, and that he is a good man,
and that his orphanage is a place of safety, then I believe the
orphanage is where we should go."

"Sounds great!" said Fugue. "Let's do it!"

Everyone else expressed their agreement with this course of action
except for Adelle, who said nothing one way or the other. This did not
escape Mr. Mosspuddle's notice and he asked her what she thought.

"I suppose I don't have much choice in the matter either way," said
Adelle. "If you go to the orphanage then I go too."

Mr. Mosspuddle was not completely satisfied with that response, but
decided it best to move on.

"So to the orphanage it is then. That leaves us with the matter of
actually finding the place; I have no idea where it is."

"It's in a city." said James. "Though I don't know what the name of the
city is."

"That's not much to work with," said the swan. "Do you know how to get
to this city?"

"I might. Whatever the city was, that's where I came from when I got on
the train."

"You mean the train that took us to the City of Orphans?" asked Mr.
Mosspuddle.

"Yes. If we could trace its path, we should be able to find the city
with the orphanage. Where did you get on the train?"

"I have no idea." said the toad, "I didn't enter it in any formal sense.
The wizards banished me from the Library, and the next thing I knew I
was on the train. But surely there are other ways of getting on the
train. In theory all we should have to do is find a train station and
ride the train back to this city we are looking for."

After further discussion, it was decided that the librarian's plan would
be adopted and that they would leave the following morning on their
quest for the orphanage. After they were finished working out the
details for the next day and their upcoming journey, Mr. Mosspuddle
thanked the dolls for their hospitality, took Marloth and went upstairs
to scour it for any clues regarding the location of the orphanage and
the city it resided in

An inn wouldn't be an inn without places to sleep, and the dolls had
made certain that their inn had plenty of rooms for everyone. The boys
were provided rooms on the third story while the girls quarters were on
the second story.

One by one, people began to head up to bed until the only two people
still at the table were James and Adelle. Adelle felt bad about how she
had responded to him earlier. She could see that he had been trying to
raise her spirits. After smoothing things out to some degree, she asked
him a question that had long been bouncing around in her mind.

"Do zombie children feel pain?"

"I do."

"Yes, but you're weird. What about everyone else?"

James thought about the other children. The sorts of masochistic acts
they performed. The children of wealthy families were known to do
unspeakable things to each other and then pay for expensive magics to
restore their flesh---no needle and thread for them. At one point it had
somehow made sense to James, but now he could not understand any of it.

"The others don't feel any pain." James said.

"That would be so wonderful! To no longer feel any pain!"

"I want to feel the pain. I want to feel it because I know it is
*real.*"

"That is definitely weird. How about this: I don't like pain, and you
seem to revel in it, so I'll keep my eyes open for some way of giving
you all of mine."

James came very close to smiling at her, but he was too absorbed by the
weight of the subject. She didn't realize how willing he would be to do
what she joked about. He looked out into the distance and reflected on
his past.

"I didn't used to feel any pain. On the outside I was having fun. But
deep down there was a fear that I was living a lie and that sooner or
later it would all catch up with me. I think all zombie children have
that. We don't want to look beyond our little zombie world because
somehow we know that if there is anything beyond, it's Hell.
Judgment Day. Doom."

"I think that's just you," said Adelle. "You seem to be drawn to most
everything morbid and depressing."

"No, that's not true. I love reading Marloth, and Marloth is full of
hope. It says that there is a world beyond this one, and that it is
something wonderful. Something worth looking forward to."

"But that totally contradicts what you just said about the outside world
being hell!"

"I think it's both. In Marloth there are characters who never see the
beauty of reality, and to them reality is hell. But to the characters
that do see its beauty, the ones who have felt and tasted it, they want
more."

Adelle pondered this. "I find it curious that the little mad boy with
his book of fairytales would be so adamant about reality."

"I believe the fairytales are real and the world is a fairytale." said
James. "Naturally, the world wants me mad."

* * *

Ivy was growing increasingly upset. Not a single boy had yet asked her
to the ball. Normally she was having to turn them down right and left.
In desperation, she took the initiative and begun asking boys if they
would take her to the ball, and so far all of them had responded that
they were holding out for a chance to be the partner of Princess Adelle. Boys that used to drool
over Ivy didn't even notice her anymore. And
that was with no one having seen the princess in over a week!

But boys weren't the only issue. It was with people in general. Within a
remarkably short period of time, Ivy had gone from being considered one
of the most attractive, clever, and influential girls in Marloth to
simply being "Adelle's friend".

"Oh yeah! I know her! I can't recall her name, but she used to hang
around the princess a lot."

Deep down, Ivy had hoped that Adelle's disappearance would result in
things slowly returning to normal. But instead, the princess had been
elevated to the status of legend. The papers were throwing around all
sorts of theories as to what could have happened to Adelle and where she
could be, and discussing those theories seemed to be the great new
pastime for everyone in the City. Ivy was sick of it! Even her mother
could talk of little else than retrieving Adelle to the Manor.

* * *

The next morning Adelle arose early and walked along the beach. The sun
was just rising and a few of its rays managed to cut through the clouds.
The light from the rays bounced off of the water, creating glittering
ripples of gold. It was very soothing to behold.

It was also very brisk. Adelle was wrapped in a jacket and she could see
her breath wafting in front of her as though her spirit was slowly
escaping her body.

As she was walking along the shore, Adelle felt a sudden inclination to
stop, pause, and turn. There, nestled in the midst of the random debris
that surrounded her, was the crown. Her breath froze. A torrent of
conflicting emotions passed through her. She was about to bend down when
she heard a sound above her.

Adelle looked up. And nearly gasped. The raven was sitting on a perch
nearby. He was looking at her critically.

"You may have the others fooled, but not me."

Adelle quickly straightened. "What do you mean?"

"All of these people pursuing you do not understand what they are
dealing with. They think that there is an enchantment around you and
that it is protecting you from them."

"Me? Enchanted? I think I would know if I was enchanted!"

"Oh, you are. They've got that part right. It's the latter part they
have wrong: the enchantment is not protecting you from them, it's
protecting you from yourself."

"From me?"

"Of course! Do you really think you are as innocent and good as so many
people have portrayed you to be? That's not innocence darling, it's
naiveté. No, you are just as twisted as the rest of this world,
you're simply being held back by the enchantment."

Adelle was taken aback. "I can't believe you just said that! That's
cruel even for you!"

For the first time in their conversation the raven finally acknowledged
the crown, motioning at it with his head. "Why don't you pick it up?"

Adelle followed his gaze to the thing her heart desired. But she didn't
move.

"How much do you know about demonic devices?" the raven asked her.

"Nothing." she replied. "I can't say I've ever even heard of them, or that I would ever want
to."

"That's curious, considering how you are intimately acquainted with
one."

"I suppose you mean the crown? I have never felt so good as when I wore
it. How could it be evil?"

"All of Jakob Damond's toys are demonic, and as with all things demonic,
they are pure evil. But things aren't always what they seem, and that is
especially the case with demonic devices. They look attractive. They
look beneficial. They appear to offer the user so many good things. But
in reality they have nothing to give. All they do is take. Take and take
and take until there is nothing left. A person tries to use one of these
devices, but in the end it is the device that uses them." The raven
paused to reload and then said, "You've already experienced this with
Jillybons."

Adelle cringed at even the mention of them. She looked down at the crown
with growing confusion.

"If you ignore everything you have witnessed, pick up that crown, and
put it back on your head, then that means the enchantment is virtually
gone. But if you walk away now and leave the crown behind you, then know
that the enchantment is the only thing that could cause you to do that."

"Because the crown is evil and so am I?"

"Do you have a better explanation? I don't know any other sort that
would want to manipulate the hearts of everyone around her including her
friends."

Adelle stomped her foot in frustration. "It's not like that! You don't
know what it's like! If anything scary comes along you just up and fly
away or become all ghostlike. Nothing can touch you! But me, I'm just a
little girl! There is so much in this world that wants nothing more than
to harm me, and by myself there is nothing I can do about it. I am so
vulnerable! Don't you see? If I am ever going to survive, that crown is
my only hope."

The raven was deeply sobered by this. While he did not agree with
everything she said, neither could he simply discount it. After much
inner wrestling he finally said, "I don't normally talk about this, but
I think I need to explain something to you. You said you were not sure
if Edward Tralvorkemen was a legend? I can assure you he is very real. I
have known him for a long time. It is from him that I have the ability
to move between dimensions, and I have used that ability to run many
errands for him.

"Yet things are not the way they once were, for we had a falling out of
sorts. There were things he promised to do that I waited and waited for,
and he never did them. He said I should have patience, but my patience
ran out. I still run errands for him from time to time, but I don't see
him as ideally as I used to.

"But with that said, I would still put my trust in him more than anyone
else in Marloth. And whether or not you trust him, he is looking out for
you. I do not understand his reasons, but he has determined to protect
you, and to do so in a very indirect manner. That group back there, they
may be a pitiful lot, but every one of them would give their life to
protect you.

"But you can't have both them and the crown. Right now you are wavering
in the middle, wishing to have both, but eventually you are going to
have to make a decision: who are you going to choose, Jakob Damond and
his magical toys or Edward Tralvorkemen and his lowly band of heroes?"

Adelle looked at the crown, and then at the inn. After a long, agonizing
pause, she pulled the shawl tighter around her and headed back toward
the inn.

The raven looked relieved. He followed her back to the inn, and as they
went, he said one thing more.

"There are things even I fear," he said to her. "Your toymaker is one of
them."

* * *

While the Lady Mediev was attending a formal evening party she happened
upon Jakob Damond. He was holding a glass of wine in one hand and
entertaining multiple guests with his fantastic stories. Curious, the
Lady approached him from behind.

"Why, if it isn't Jakob Damond in the flesh! I didn't think you were the
socialite."

Damond turned to look at her and smiled as usual. "And if it isn't the
Lady Mediev, likewise in her flesh! Actually, I love parties. I just
usually attend wilder ones."

The Lady made some witty comment about toys and wild parties.

"Which reminds me," said the toymaker, almost blushing, "there is
something I would like to ask you. In private."

The Lady raised an eyebrow. "A private conversation with Jakob Damond?
How could I resist?"

The toymaker excused himself from his audience and started walking
beside the Lady. As they walked the toymaker took a few sips from his
wine and then said, "I would like to make you a proposition."

"A proposition! How intriguing. But I have to warn you, I don't come cheap."

"Oh, I think you'll like my offering. If you were to do me a small favor, I could tell you---not right away
but sometime in the near future---where Adelle is going to be."

"What! You know where she is?"

"I didn't say that. But I did say you are a very handsome and clever
woman."

The Lady eyed him suspiciously. "And what favor would I need to perform
in return? Am I properly dressed for it?"

The toymaker maintained his steady smile. "All I ask is for you to leave Adelle
and her entourage alone. At least for now."

"And why would I ever do that?"

The toymaker took another sip from his wine. "Because you are making
them agitated. Causing discomfort when what you *should* be doing is
making them happy."

"Happy? *Happy?* That is the *opposite* of what I should be doing! I
want control of Adelle, and for that she needs to be broken. Since she
first arrived at the City of Orphans I have been patiently
deconstructing her, and with much success. More than most people
realize."

"Yes, yes. You get a pat on the back for that. But breaking her will not
accomplish anything by itself. Someone is helping her. Someone with
considerable power. Neither you nor I nor anybody else is going to make
much progress toward acquiring Adelle until that help is undermined. And
the best way to do that is to give her and that band of heroes something
they are presently lacking. Something that, once they possess, will be
their undoing."

"What, despair? Apathy? A spell to render them senseless?"

"No. What they need is self-confidence. And that is a need we are going
to fill."

* * *

Once again, the lair of Doctor Otto Marrechian found a monkey sneaking
into its core and tinkering with the recently repaired zombie machine.
Except now he wasn't turning up the juice, he was turning it down. For
now.

<div class="page-break"></div>
<div style="height: 55%"></div>
<img class="centered-image" src="file://src/assets/images/fairytale/crown.png" alt="Marloth"/>
