Adelle was wakened by her own screams. Embarrassed, she wiped the tears
from her eyes and looked about her. Rays of early sunlight drifted
through the window and settled on her bed. It was morning. Still a
little dazed, she climbed out of bed, got dressed, and set out for the
kitchen.

\*\*\*

Far below the tower that Adelle was then descending, the gates of the
castle were being opened for the King and his entourage. They were
returning from a very manly hunt. The King would go on a hunt whenever
he was frustrated with affairs in the castle, and he went hunting
regularly.

As the King made his way along one of the elegant hallways of the
castle, an attendant hurried up to speak with him.

"Your majesty! I've been hearing the strangest reports of late!"

The King looked back in annoyance. He was a stout man with broad
shoulders, strong arms, and a thriving beard. And little patience. With
a faint growl, he continued down the hall. The attendant gave pursuit
like a loyal gnat and eventually caught up to him, struggling to
maintain stride with the King's sweeping gate.

"Sir, a number of farms have been attacked! The occupants were
gruesomely killed and the buildings razed. But there has been little
sign of looting, just senseless destruction. The rangers do not know
what to make of it."

"Did they find any tracks? That's what they do, isn't it? Track things?"

"Yes, they found footprints. Small footprints. But they aren't certain
what sort of creature could have left them, and the trails always
disappear."

"If there is something my rangers can't track then they are overpaid.
Find me better rangers. You can start right now."

"Yes, your majesty. Except I had a few errands I was in the middle of
running. Can I do those first?"

"You talk of people being butchered and yet have more important things
on your plate? What errands do you speak of?"

"They're mostly regarding the queen, Milord. I need to go and deliver a
gift from the governor of Rhumeveld to the queen and then I need to
review this list of items she said she---"

"A gift from the governor? To the queen? Well I guess I shouldn't be
surprised. Things have reached the point where I only hear of these
things in passing."

"If you would like, I could inform you whenever---"

"Don't be a fool. Well, at least try not to be." The King sighed.
"Clearly being King isn't everything it used to be. The queen can do
whatever she wants."

"That is very noble of you! You know how the queen is adored by
everyone!"

"That's just it, isn't it? *Everyone* loves the queen. Especially men."

"I'm sorry, I don't quite grasp your---"

"Just shut up."

They rounded a corner and were met by Adelle, who was just leaving the
staircase. The King's face brightened at the sight of her.

"Ah ha! And how is my little beauty this morning?" said the King.

"Hello father!" said Adelle. "I had the most unbelievable dream last
night, and you simply *must* hear about it!"

The King reached down and hugged her, lifting her right off her feet.
"All in good time, my dear! Right now there is some boring old politics
I have to deal with. I have to prepare to meet some delegates that
should be arriving at the castle some time later today. Which reminds
me, there were supposed to be some young people with the group."

"Young people? As in *children?* People my own age?"

"I think so. If you like you can accompany me to the gates when they
arrive."

"Oh! I would love to!"

"Excellent. And then once they are settled and that business is out of
the way, then you can tell me all about your amazing dreams."

"Thank you, Father; though could I at least tell you a little bit now?"

"I'm sorry, but I am already running late. I will see you soon. Why
don't you go find Miss Bethany?"

Adelle watched her father round the corner and waited until he was out
of sight. She was grateful he had only suggested the idea. The last
thing in the world she wanted to do was find Miss Bethany. Instead she
continued in the direction of the kitchen.

\*\*\*

Miss Bethany was a large woman. Large in size; large in personality. She
was taller than most men and maintained an equally considerable girth.
While she was not considered the most pleasant occupant of the castle,
she got things done, and people knew it. Miss Bethany held many roles in
the castle, and one of them was Adelle's nanny. Adelle believed that she
herself had grown too old for a nanny, and perhaps her parents thought
so as well, but Miss Bethany still saw need for a nanny, and that was
the end of it.

Adelle didn't have to find Miss Bethany; Miss Bethany found her. She
grabbed the girl by the ear and led her down to the kitchen. Adelle had
tried to explain to the woman that she had already been going to the
kitchen, but it was a futile endeavor. Every time Adelle tried to speak,
the lady pulled her along harder.

"You try my patience, young lady. Why do you *always* try my patience?"

"Ouch!" was all Adelle managed to say.

"Well it won't get you anywhere. I have more patience than your little
head can hold. I'm a waiting woman."

That was Miss Bethany's common refrain. "I'm a waiting woman. Always
waiting. The patience of Job and I'm still waiting."

"Waiting for wha---ouch!"

"None of your business, young lady. Suffice to say, I can easily
out-wait a waif like you."

Despite the pain of nearly having her ear torn off, Adelle managed to
smile inside as she thought to herself, *"she can easily outweigh most
anyone!"*

After feeding Adelle, the lady took her up to her room and made certain
she was properly cleaned and dressed to meet their guests. Adelle
wouldn't have minded this so much except that she had very different
ideas about what it was to look pretty, and fights always ensued over
her wardrobe and the arrangement of her hair. Adelle felt that Miss
Bethany's sense of fashion would be better applied to dressing viking
warriors than little girls.

It was not much later that it was announced to Adelle that the delegates
had been sighted approaching the castle. Adelle hurried to the entryway
and took her place beside her father just as the carriages drew up.

The delegation was smaller than had been expected. There was only one
nobleman: Duke Francis of the Green Halls. Accompanying him were four
children: three boys and one girl, all of them members of powerful
families. The children were on holiday and the Duke had agreed to bring
them along and act as their chaperone. As the children stepped out of
the carriage Adelle's focus was drawn to one of the boys in particular.
He was older than the others and nearly a head taller. He did not appear
particularly happy and eyed his surroundings with disinterest. He was
also very handsome. Above all, he had the natural ability to make simple
actions like walking and standing look profound.

For a moment, Adelle was struck by a sense of self-consciousness. She
didn't know why she suddenly felt inadequate, and she tried to fight it
away. She reminded herself of her position and beauty and was soon
rejoined by her normal confidence. She moved closer to her father and
followed him to greet their guests.

"Welcome to Castle Elington!" said the King. "I know you'll find your
stay a pleasant one."

"Thank you." said the Duke. "I am honored to be your guest."

The King motioned toward his daughter. "Allow me to introduce my lovely
daughter, Princess Adelle!"

"Also an honor." said the Duke, bowing again. He was about to compliment
her appearance when the doors to the entry room opened and in strode
Adelle's mother, the most beautiful woman in the world. Time seemed to
slow as all present turned to stare at her. The queen did not demand
attention. She did not have to.

She glided down the stairs and spoke some words to break the spell. The
Duke shook himself, found something akin to a smile, and replied to her
greeting. After further exchange of pleasantries and introduction the
adults proceeded down the halls of the castle, the boys ran into the
garden to play with swords, and Adelle was left with the girl. Adelle
watched the boys leave with a tinge of longing. She wanted to follow
them, particularly the older boy, whom she had learned was named Bobby.
But she felt responsible to entertain the girl and was also excited at
the prospect of having a female companion.

Adelle went up to her and beamed warmly. "Hello, Ivy! As you already
heard, I am Princess Adelle. I'm so glad to make your acquaintance. I'm
certain your stay here shall be a wonderful time for the both of us!"

"That's nice." said Ivy.

"Here, let me show you around the castle!"

"Why?" said Ivy.

"I don't know. Aren't you curious to see the sights of Castle Elington?"

"No, not really."

"Then would you like to take a walk in the garden? It's especially
beautiful this time of year!"

Ivy shook her head. "Gardens aren't really my thing."

"Well what do you want to do?"

Ivy looked here and there as though searching for something. "Do you
have any entertainers?" she asked.

"Entertainers?"

"Yes, musicians, acrobats, magicians. People who can add zest to any
occasion."

"Oh! Of course! Music! Dancing! Magic tricks! I love all of that! To
have parties and fireworks and endless excitement!"

"Yes, yes! That's what I'm talking about."

"We don't have any of that here." said Adelle. "But I've read about
them, and would love to experience such things someday."

Ivy sighed wretchedly. "I knew it. This place blows."

There was silence for a few moments and then she said "Fine, I'll take a
walk in your pretty garden."

Adelle led the way to the middle of the castle and into the courtyard.
It was very large, and most of it was occupied by a luscious garden.
Sloping lawns, clusters of trees, a winding stream, and a wide variety
of flowers were just some of the gems that made the castle's crown.

In the distance Adelle could see the boys dueling at the top of a hill.
They were remarkably agile.

"So, where are the other children?" asked Ivy.

"It's just me." said Adelle. "No other children live in the castle."

"You must be kidding!"

"No. It can be rather lonely. But now that you're here, I'm sure we'll
have lots of fun!"

"What about boys? Surely there must be some boys!"

"Like I said, I'm the only child that lives here. Unless you count
Samantha, though she's somewhat older than me."

"Who's Samantha?"

Adelle held up her doll. "Samantha, this is Ivy. Ivy, Samantha. Now that
you're introduced I'm sure you'll be best of friends."

"Ugh!" Ivy moaned. "I'm more interested in bigger dolls." She looked
over at her traveling companions. "Though I'd prefer ones I haven't
gotten bored with."

"So you don't like Samantha?"

Ivy looked back at the doll and shrugged. "Samantha's fine. I've had
stiffer company. But like I said, I've grown into older tastes." she
paused for a moment and then added, "But I do love my stuffed animals
Bipsy and Boppin."

She looked at Adelle critically. "I think you could use a Bipsy and
Boppin of your own."

Adelle wasn't really paying attention at this point. Her attention was
drawn toward the other side of the garden where the boys were fighting
with their swords. She was amazed at how agile they were. Particularly
Bobby, who had a flair for acrobatics. She had seen the soldiers
practicing outside the barracks many times, but she had never seen one
of them block multiple blows while somersaulting through the air.

"You're *already* smitten? We just got here!"

Adelle turned to her companion in confusion. "What do you mean?"

"I mean that over there you have Osmond, the klutzy essence of
anti-charm, Harris, the obnoxious prig, and Bobby, God's gift to preteen
girls. I have three chances to guess which one you're ogling."

"I wasn't---whatever you just said. I was simply intrigued by the
maneuvers the boys were performing."

"Yes. Good save. For a moment you almost had me thinking you found boys
appealing."

Adelle was at a loss how to reply to this and they walked for some time
in silence. As they proceeded, Adelle went out of her way not to look in
the direction of the boys, though she desperately wanted to. By the time
they had circled the fish pond and were passing under one of the many
arbors, she had regained enough courage to ask Ivy something that had
been bothering her from the moment they had met.

"Forgive me if this sounds impertinent, but aren't you a little
embarrassed to be walking around like that?"

"Like what?"

"I can see your legs! And your shoulders!"

"Oh, you mean my clothes? Why should I be embarrassed? I'm proud of my
body. I wear more revealing outfits than this."

"My father told me that only women of ill repute wear such clothes."

"Your father? That must have been a weird conversation. Well maybe your
father is the expert on irreputable women, but what could he know about
girls' clothes? Is he the expert on fashion as well?"

Adelle was too confused to respond.

"As for me, I'm not a woman of ill repute; I have a grand reputation.
And what I'm wearing is normal these days. You're the first girl I've
seen to wear such a frumpy dress as that. I'm surprised *you* aren't
embarrassed."

Adelle looked down at her dress. She thought it was beautiful. It had
taken quite a struggle with Miss Bethany to be allowed to wear it. (The
woman had wanted her to wear something gray. Gray!)

Ivy noticed the slightly hurt look in Adelle's face and hastily tried to
patch things up. "Not to say that it has *no* taste. A lot of money
definitely went into its creation, and people always have respect for a
person wearing money. I'm just saying that you could turn a lot more
heads if you wore something closer to what I'm sporting."

Adelle was aghast at the thought of being seen in public wearing such
attire, and she said so.

Ivy sighed. "I hate to think that you are beyond hope. Here, you don't
like my dress, and I don't like your dress. Seeing that you and I are
roughly the same height and figure, why don't you lend me a few of your
dresses to try on, and I'll lend you a few of mine. You'd only have to
test it out in your room; no one would have to see you but yourself.
Would you at least wear one of my outfits in the privacy of your own
room? You could look in the mirror and see how it feels."

"No." said Adelle. "I'm never putting on anything like that."

"Well, at least you know your own mind." said Ivy, and she promptly
changed the subject back to boys.

\*\*\*

Adelle tried to remember where she had left her swan doll. She had been
playing hide and seek with her dolls the day before and had forgotten
where the swan had hid. She checked one room after another but could not
find the swan. Then she strode into one of the spare bedrooms and
stopped in surprise. Bobby was there. His things were all over the bed.
This must be where he was staying. She was in his bedroom!

"Excuse me!" she said, blushing. She turned to leave but then her
attention was arrested and her mind went tilt.

Bobby was throwing knives into the wall.

"What are you doing!" she said in horror.

Bobby threw another knife into the wall. "Just killing time."

"And the room! Look at what you've done to the beautiful mahogany!"

Another knife buried itself into said mahogany.

"And where did you get those knives? You should be more careful: knives
are very dangerous! Last year Miss Bethany cut one of her arteries and
it was shooting out all over the place! She told me she had to plug it
up with a cork!"

Bobby stepped across the room and extracted the knives. "No more knives
in the wall. Happy?"

Adelle looked unsure. "What are you going to do with them?"

"Here, you can have them." He held them out to her. Adelle didn't know
what to do.

"Take them." said Bobby. "It's a gift."

"But I'm sure I wouldn't be allowed to---"

"Nobody has to know."

"But---"

"Do you have to make *everything* so difficult? Just take them!"

Adelle struggled inside. She didn't want to even touch the wicked
looking things and she was certain her parents wouldn't want her to
either, but she felt wretched to refuse his gift.

"I'm sorry but I can't!" she said at last, backing away toward the door.
"I have to go!"

"Whatever!" said Bobby, clearly offended. As she left the room, he
turned and hurled all four knives into the dresser.

\*\*\*

"I do not trust those children." said the King. He said this to his
wife, who was on the other side of the bedchamber. It was just before
dinner time and she was touching up her appearance before rejoining
their guests. The queen looked back at him through the reflection in the
dressing table mirror.

"They are only children! Children are harmless."

The King's face grew sterner. "Not all children."

"Don't be silly! From what I've seen of these children, they are very
charming."

"Charming or not, I would sleep more soundly if Adelle was not
associating with them."

"You know that would not be good! She should do everything in her power
to befriend them. They are all the children of very important people;
people who are very pivotal to the future of the throne."

"Our daughter's safety is more important than any throne." said the
King.

"And she is safe! Remember the rules. No one can harm her."

"We threw out the rules. Are you picking and choosing which rules still
work?"

"Yes." said the queen.

"I don't think that's possible! We are in over our heads!"

"We always have been." said the queen.

\*\*\*

Every evening the royal family would dine with the company of the most
prominent members of the court, such as the chief counselor and his
wife. Any politically noteworthy guests would also dine with them, which
included Duke Francis and his charges. Normally Adelle sat with the
adults, but on this night, due to the number of children, a separate
table was designated for the youths.

While Adelle had spent much of the afternoon with Ivy, it wasn't until
dinner that she was able to really converse with the boys and form an
idea of what they were like.

Just as Ivy had said, Harris really was full of himself and his own
self-importance, though some of this was possibly justified. He was
knowledgeable about a great many things and had a demeanor that bespoke
of power. People looked at Harris and knew they were beholding a future
ruler under whose feet their own lives might one day rest.

It was Harris who spoke the most to Adelle. More than anyone else there
he saw Adelle as a politically beneficial friend and wanted to know all
about her.

Then there was Osmand. He was a very distinct character. He *could* have
been handsome. But his manner of dress and carriage did violence to that
possibility. For one thing, his clothes were absurdly fit for his frame.
They would cling to him in one direction and hang from him in another.
Osmand tripped over himself.

As for his manners, every one of his actions seemed unconsciously
calculated to bring the maximum amount of discomfort to anyone in his
vicinity. He may have been smart, but he was so self-conscious he
avoided independent thought for fear of inciting disapproval.

But he did possess one attribute that made people feel comfortable
around him: it was universally agreed that he was the most harmless
person in the world.

Adelle felt sorry for him and the way the others ignored him. She tried
to counteract the way they treated him (and the way he treated himself)
by doing her best to make him feel welcome and put him at ease. But
Osmand was such an inconsolable being that it was hard to tell if this
had any effect on him. If anything, her attentions only made him more
awkward.

But no one had Adelle's attention more than Bobby. Bobby was a puzzle to
her. His every move was so confident and full of careless abandon. He
exuded effortless style, and yet was it really effortless, or was it all
just an act? Adelle couldn't decide. Either charismatic rhythm ran
through his very veins or he was a poser. Adelle may not have admitted
it to herself, but she enjoyed watching him either way.

Bobby was also very reserved. When he spoke, his words flowed like
street-wise poetry, but Adelle found it difficult to get him to say
much. It was almost as if he was subtly teasing her, perceiving that she
desired more conversation and yet holding it just beyond her reach.

Throughout the meal, the King periodically glanced over at the
children's table suspiciously. Whatever he was looking for, he never
caught it.

In a desperate attempt to get more people talking than just Harris,
Adelle steered the conversation to asking about each person's families.

"My father is Lord Jasper of Harrington Weigh." said Harris. "We too
have the blood of kings, but it is a different line than yours."

Osmand made a nearly indiscernible comment about his father, who was
also a duke, and something about his family being pivotal in a long list
of wars.

"My family doesn't claim anything special about our blood." said Bobby.

Adelle looked at him curiously. "And yet I have heard that your family
has much influence over the affairs of the world. How is that so? Is
your family rich?"

Bobby shook his head. "No. Not particularly rich either. Let's just say
that anyone who goes against my family's wishes tends to regret it."

Adelle wanted to learn more about Bobby' family but she noticed that Ivy
had not yet spoken since they had sat down and wanted to include her in
the conversation. "What about your family?" she asked her.

Ivy's face went sour and she said. "Please, let's not bring them up at
the dinner table! My family does not agree with anyone's palate,
especially mine."

"But what about your family?" said Harris, looking at Adelle. "I'm
guessing they are struggling very hard to maintain the court's
relevance."

"What do you mean?" she asked him.

"Simply that there is a growing movement to disband the aristocracy.
Kings and queens are a thing of fairytales. We are moving into a modern
age of merchants and lawyers. Many people think there is no longer any
need for the pomp and extravagance aristocracy demands. That is why Duke
Francis was invited here. Your parents are trying to convince him that
being aligned with the throne is still his best option. But I'm not sure
he thinks that anymore."

Adelle was appalled. "And what do you think?" she asked him.

"I am very pragmatic. I will go with whatever works."

"And what about you?" she asked, turning to Bobby.

"I'm not into politics one way or another. I leave that to the wigs. But
it does pay to keep an eye on which way the games are going."

"And which way do you think they are going?"

"I think Harris is probably right. When you reach adulthood there may no
longer be a crown for you to wear."

\*\*\*

The next morning Ivy spent some time with the boys, became upset with
them, and set out in search of her young hostess. After looking about
and asking many people she finally found her in a large hall near the
back of the castle, and to her utter amazement, the princess was on her
hands and knees, washing the marble floor!

"What horror is this? The Daughter Heir of Marloth ... scrubbing
floors?"

Adelle squeezed out her rag in a nearby bucket and continued scrubbing.
"Miss Bethany makes me do it. She says I need to appreciate women's
work."

"Do your parents know about this?"

"Maybe. Maybe not. It's Miss Bethany." She said this as though that was
a full explanation in itself.

Ivy watched Adelle and shook her head sadly. "We need to get you out of
here!"

After some time Adelle finished her chores and the two set off to
explore the castle grounds and talk. While they were conversing, Adelle
brought up the subject of Bobby.

"He seems so distanced from me." she said. "I'm afraid I hurt Bobby's
feelings!"

She expected Ivy to say either something like, "No, I don't think you
offended him," or "Now that you mention it, he did seem a little
miffed," but instead she simply said, "Bobby doesn't have feelings."

"Oh, but he does! I've seen it! I think he just keeps them buried."

"If in buried you mean *entombed*, then yes, perhaps."

Adelle didn't say it out loud, but she suspected that Ivy either hadn't
seen that side of him or simply wasn't sensitive enough to notice.

"Anyhow, it's not a big deal. I was just curious what you thought."

"You're right: it's no big deal. You're just one more of the countless
girls who have fallen for his charms. He charms the wits out of people
he doesn't even know exist."

"I haven't fallen for anyone! I simply would like to be on good terms
with him. I *do* like him. He just doesn't seem to like me."

"You're not his type. And that's a good thing."

Adelle considered herself and wondered what exactly made her not his
type. She debated about asking what *was* Bobby's type, but decided to
wait on that. Instead she asked Ivy how well she knew Bobby.

"We used to date. I suppose that's worth something."

"Date? Aren't you a little young to go out on dates?"

"No."

"But you aren't dating him anymore?"

"No, we are not, and yes, he is available. But take my advice: I fought
to get out of that relationship, and you should fight to stay out of
it."

"But why?"

"Because Bobby is one of those people who is strong enough to get just
about whatever he wants, and he knows it."

\*\*\*

Dinner that night was much like the previous one, though Ivy spoke a
little more than before. Bobby was still enigmatic. Harris was starting
to get on Adelle's nerves. He dominated every conversation he was
associated with. Adelle had experimented with several different tactics,
but had yet to find a way to shut him up. As for Osmand, it was hard to
tell if he was basking in their presence or pained to be in their
society.

After dinner, Adelle visited Ivy's room and brought the rest of her
dolls to show her.

"My parents have been so generous in all the wonderful things they have
given me, particularly my dolls. Though I have to say, while I love my
dolls dearly and am very grateful for them, I can't wait until I become
a mother and can have real, living dolls instead."

"Really? That's the first time I've ever heard anything like that. You
actually *want* to be a mother?"

"But of course! Don't you?"

"Never! I'd be too afraid of ending up like my own mother!"

"Why? Don't you love your mother?"

"My mother is an arrogant bore whose only concern for me is that she
remain in full control of every aspect of my life! I hate her!"

Adelle was shocked. "I'm very sorry for you. I wish you could experience
what it is like to have a mother who loves you. My mother loves me very
much. She has given me so many wonderful things! And sometimes at night
she sings to me and tells me bedtime stories!"

"Singing? Bedtime stories? Did I just step into a nursery rhyme? I guess
so if this dream of yours actually has loving mothers. All mothers are
the same! They kick themselves for getting pregnant and kick their
daughters for being born!"

Adelle was shocked. "My mother is not like that! She is a good person!"

Ivy looked up and scrutinized Adelle curiously.

"You don't know much about your mother, do you?"

"What do you mean by that?"

"I mean ... It sounds like you haven't heard any of the rumors ... "
Adelle looked concerned. "What rumors?"

"Oh, nothing. I shouldn't have even brought it up."

"Please tell me! What are the rumors?"

"Well ... " said Ivy as she feigned pondering the moral ramifications of
her situation. "I don't want to cause any distress, but if you insist
... *One* of the rumors is that the queen is actually much older than
she looks. Supposedly she made a deal with the devil so that she'll live
at least three times longer than normal people and always look
beautiful."

"But that's silly!" said Adelle.

"Maybe so. But if it's true, you'll die an old woman long before she
does. You'd never be queen!"

"That's even sillier! Even if my mother did live that long, she would
eventually step aside and give me the crown."

"Why would she? Why would any sane woman choose not to be queen?"

"Because she loves me!"

"Perhaps. But there are also rumors about how she's afraid of you.
Afraid that when you come of age you might somehow try to take the
throne from her. You know, slip a little something in her tea or stir up
the people against her. Stuff like that happens all the time with
royalty."

"That's terrible! Those are all terrible things to say!"

"Hey, you wanted me to tell you about the rumors."

"Well I've heard enough!" said Adelle, and she stormed out of the room.

"That's probably best." said Ivy under her breath. "Those were the nicer
ones."

\*\*\*

That night, as with every night, the queen crossed the hall to tuck her
daughter into bed. During the day she was the Queen of Marloth, but when
she kissed Adelle goodnight she was simply the mother of a little girl
who loved her very much.

"Can you tell me the story of the orphanage?" Adelle asked her, as her
mother sat beside her on the bed. "The *whole* story?"

"No dear. Not tonight. Maybe when you are older."

"It seems like everything is after I am older."

"Many good things usually are. But many hard things too. Be happy where
you are; it will pass by so fast and before you know it you will be
facing grown-up problems."

Adelle tried her best to accept this, but she never seemed to get the
hang of it. After a few more moments, she decided to bring up something
that had been weighing heavy on her.

"Mother, do you love me?"

"What a question to ask! Of course I love you! You're my little angel!
What could make you think otherwise?"

"Oh ... nothing." said Adelle, now feeling embarrassed for even bringing
it up. "Just rumors."

"Rumors? Is this from your talks with Ivy?"

Adelle idly played with her hair for a moment before nodding.

"Oh, Adelle! You will come across many people like Ivy. You can be nice
to them and humor them and it is even useful for them to like you, but
don't ever believe a word they say."

The queen hugged her daughter close to her and they talked for some time
more. Adelle loved her mother so much. But at the same time, in the back
of her mind she wondered if her mother was one of those people.

\*\*\*

The next morning Adelle was weighed down by her conduct toward Ivy the
day before. She felt guilty for the way she had shouted and walked away
from her. Agitated by this burden, she searched throughout the castle
for her new friend. She knocked on Ivy's bedroom but there was no
answer. She asked Duke Francis but he replied that he had not yet seen
Ivy that day. Finally, she checked in at the room Harris was staying in
and, to her surprise, Ivy answered the door.

"Why, hello Ivy!" said Adelle.

"Oh." said Ivy. "Are you looking for Harris?"

"No, actually, you're just the person I wanted to see. It's about
yesterday evening. I'm sorry for my outburst when we were conversing. I
don't know what came over me! I hope I didn't hurt your feelings, and
that we can still be friends. Will you forgive me?"

Ivy was not sure how to take this. Apologies were a foreign creature to
her.

"Um, yeah. If it makes you feel better. But really, you didn't do
anything wrong. You have fire in you, and that's a good thing."

Adelle wasn't certain if that was a compliment, but she was glad to get
her sins off her chest. "Thank you," she said. "So we're still friends?"

"Of course."

"Wonderful! Would you like to play jacks with me?"

"You know, I really appreciate the offer but I *think* I'll pass. Maybe
some other time."

"That's not a problem. We can do something else!"

"No, you go on ahead. I've got some things I have to do by myself."

Ivy closed the door and Adelle was left to her own means of
entertainment. It was strange that even though she had spent most of her
life diverting herself, it wasn't the same anymore. She wanted to be
with *people*. She sighed and decided to go see what her father was
doing.

\*\*\*

Adelle put her ear to one of the large doors and listened. From inside
the courtroom she could hear her father conferring with his counselors
and the people of the court. She tried to understand what they were
saying, but the bits and pieces she picked up were so dreadfully dull
that she couldn't concentrate. Giving up, she sat on the ground with her
back against the door and played with her jacks, all the while humming a
tune she had heard the soldiers singing while they drank in the castle
barracks.

She had not been long at this when a raven glided into the castle
through a nearby window and rested on the ground beside her. Adelle
tilted her head and gazed at it curiously. She almost thought she could
see through the bird to the wall behind.

"What a ragged looking bird!" she said

"Where is the king?" The raven demanded, ignoring her.

Adelle dropped her jacks in surprise. "Why, it talks!" she exclaimed.

"Why, she talks!" the bird replied sarcastically. "Off course I talk!
Now tell me where the king is or I'll peck your eyes out!"

Adelle looked affronted. "That's not a very nice thing to say. Don't you
realize who you are addressing? *I* am Princess Adelle!"

"Good. Then you'll know where the king is."

Adelle sighed in exasperation. "Well if you must know, my father---*the
King*---is behind those doors. But he's busy."

"So am I." said the raven.

With a quick bow, he spread his wings and took off through the window.
Adelle hastily sprung to her feet and darted to the window, just in time
to see the bird drop out of sight.

"Fancy that. Talking animals." said Adelle. "Next thing you know, even
the dead will be speaking to one another."

She had just returned to her jacks when she heard several frantic shouts
from inside the courtroom. That was it. She simply *had* to see what was
going on. Taking hold of the door, she pushed it open just far enough to
peer inside.

The courtroom, which was very dark and dreary due to a lack of lights
and its windows being tinted, was packed with a great variety of
official looking people, all of who were talking or yelling at one
another. Beyond all of the heads, and at the far side of the room,
Adelle could just make out the throne upon which sat her father. He was
shouting for everyone to be silent, but no one seemed to hear him, or
care. All of their attention was focused up at the ceiling.

"So, finally a little excitement around here?" whispered Ivy over her
shoulder. Adelle nearly jumped out of her skin she was so startled.
Quickly she closed the door and turned to face Ivy.

"You scared me!" she whispered loudly.

"What's the matter?" Ivy asked her. "Let's go inside and see what's
happening!"

"We can't do that! Children aren't allowed in the throne room!"

"Let me get this straight: You're a princess, right?"

"Yes."

"And you are to be the Queen one day?"

"Yes, of course I am!"

"Well then, what kind of a queen are you going to be if you've never
even seen what goes on in the royal court?"

Adelle didn't know what to say.

"I'll make this easier for you." said Ivy. She opened the door and
pushed Adelle inside. Adelle made no resistance.

Everyone was far too busy to notice the two girls. After a few moments
looking around, they climbed onto the base of one of the pillars so they
could see over the top of the crowd.

There, in the rafters, perched the raven, sternly studying the chaos.
Gradually, the voices dimmed and then died altogether. The raven dropped
to the floor before the King and continued to look about.

"So this is Marloth." it said. "It's even darker than I imagined."

"What devilry brings a talking beast to the Court of Elington?" the King
demanded.

"Much devilry." replied the raven. "I admit, you have reason to be
angry, for I bring dark tidings. Your wickedness has finally caught up
with you!"

"Enough! Guards, shoot him!"

The men raised their muskets and fired but the volleys passed through
the raven as though it were a ghost. The bird stood in the center of the
room unharmed, cocking its head sideways to lock eyes with the King.

"Weapons cannot silence your doom. Only turning your course can perform
that feat."

"Oh? And what course is that?"

"You welcomed the doctor Otto Marrechian into this land, and have
provided him with many valuable resources. The rules specifically
forbade the support of individuals who tamper with evil, and you know
that is exactly what he is doing!"

"I know the rules, but they were meant to help us, not shackle us to the
ground! Our current science is stagnating and we need geniuses like
Doctor Marrechian to lead us into the future!"

"Where is the book of rules? If you had bothered to read it you would
have seen that the rules are there for your own good."

"We don't have the book anymore, and we don't need it. The rules may
have been good for us once, but our needs are different now. Times are
changing. The world is changing."

The raven hopped up and down in feathered fury. "Details change! Names
change! But the underlying reality stays the same! That's what the book
was all about!"

"I am the King of this kingdom, not you. So even though I apparently
have no power to silence you, you have no power to do more than babble."

The raven calmed down to a simmer and kicked a nearby pebble. "I don't
really know why I would expect anything else. No one ever listens to me.
My entire existence has been spent handing people their fate and
watching them stomp on it, only to have Fate eventually stomp on them.
Why do I always get so worked up about these things? It's not my
problem. You've dug your own grave, who am I to kick you into it?"

The crowd began to murmur. Once again, the court was thrown into a
chaotic thrall of panicked voices. As Adelle tried to adjust her spot,
she thought she heard a familiar voice.

"Hello Adelle."

Adelle was so surprised she slipped off her perch and fell onto the
floor. It was her mother. Ivy inched further around the column to make
certain she was out of sight. So far the queen had only spotted her
daughter.

"I thought you were downstairs with Miss Bethany." said the queen.

Adelle quickly got to her feet.

"Don't worry about her, mother, she won't get into trouble."

"You're in no place to jest! You know well enough that you should not be
here. This is no place for a child!"

"But mother! Am I not to be Queen one day? I should think I need to know
all there is of royal life---*you know*---things like politics and
intrigue!"

"Politics is learned through schooling. As for intrigue, no---"

"Excuse me, your majesty," said an attendant, "but this raven is causing
a serious disturbance. The King needs your support immediately!"

The queen glared at Adelle. "Go find Miss Bethany at once!"

As the queen disappeared into the crowd, Adelle decided that it would
probably be best to do what her mother commanded.

Right after the rest of the raven's speech.

By the time Adelle had returned to her station beside Ivy, the commotion
had once again died down, largely due to the presence of the queen. Ivy
said something about wanting to get a better view and stole along the
edge of the room behind the crowd. Adelle wasn't feeling nearly so bold
and remained at her post at the base of the pillar.

"Very well." said the King to the raven. "You have succeeded in casting
turmoil upon this court. Now begone before I seek out some sorcery that
can do more harm to you than bullets!"

"I am the voice of Destiny. I will not depart until I have said
everything you are to hear."

"What more is there to say?" spoke the Queen. "You have given your
warning, and we have heard it!"

"You think I came simply to speak of your doom? No, that was only my
greeting. The fate of the whole of Marloth lies upon the knowledge I
bear.

"For the situation is thus: The eyes of darkness are not upon your
castle. It cares little for you or your pretty queen. Its eyes are upon
the only thing left for it to feed upon. The only thing it has left to
desire, and to fear."

The raven fluttered about and turned toward the back of the room. The
crowd followed his gaze to the pillar beside the entrance.

"In short, It seeks your daughter."

All eyes turned to Adelle. As she felt the full attention of everyone in
the room and the eerie words of the raven echoing between her ears, she
found herself more frightened than ever in her life. Leaping to the
ground, she fled from the room.

The King could take no more. He hurled himself at the raven in a blind
rage. But just as the bullets, the King passed through the bird as
though it were never there. With a painful thud he landed upon the
floor.

The raven ignored him. He was watching the little girl as she ran away.
For a brief moment what might have been sorrow fell across his
countenance. When the girl had gone, he turned once more to the King.

"There is still time for you to mend your ways, but that time is growing
short. Already the forces of evil are gathering, and soon they will come
to take every life in this castle. But enough doom. I do bring with me
one piece of good news ... I'm getting out of here!"

And with that the bird leapt to the window and was gone.

\*\*\*

At around that same time in another dimension of Marloth, the city of
Rhumeveld was on the verge of a surprising visit. Its guests turned out
to be an army of children. Unruly little children with knives and clubs
and all sorts of objects that were never meant to be weapons. They
swarmed over the city like a plague, quickly slashing apart any defenses
it might have had.

In the center of the city there was a rather magnificent mansion that
was the residence of the governor. He was one of the most rich and
powerful men in Marloth. Powerful, that was, until his army of guards
found themselves beset by creatures that could be shot, stabbed, and
beaten and yet keep on biting you. The defenders were helpless.

The governor's house had no sooner been captured than a short, battered
looking goblin made his way through the spacious doorway of the mansion
with about a dozen of the children trailing behind him. The goblin
crossed the threshold of the lobby and stood before the governor
himself, who at the moment was being held down by five more of the
children.

"Hello." said the goblin. "My name is Deadwick. What's yours?"

"Joe." said the governor.

"Well, Joe, I've heard that you've got a mighty powerful relic hidden
somewhere in this place. Something that could change the world! Know
what I'm talking about?"

The governor shook his head.

"That's okay. I'll refresh your memory for you."

The goblin hit the fellow over the head. The governor slumped to the
floor unconscious.

"Aren't you supposed to just hurt him?" said one of the children.
"People can't speak when their eyes are closed. It's called being asleep
or dead or something."

"Oh well," said Deadwick. "I never was good at moderation. We'll just
forget about him and find this powerful relic on our own. Search the
place for anything that looks really powerful. You'll know when you see
it. They usually have colorful glowing auras or ancient inscriptions or
disintegrates the first bloke who steps into the room. Something like
that."

"What about the governor?"

"We're done with him. Take him outside and kill him."

The children split up into several groups and began to scour the
mansion. The goblin went about the rooms, overseeing their questing.

"How about this!" said one of the children. It was carrying a small red
fire truck.

"That's nothing but a stupid toy!" said Deadwick.

"Well, it's shiny looking."

"Pull yourself together! We're looking for items of *power!*" Things
that can blow people up or tell the future or turn day into night!"

A group of children returned from the eastern wing with piles of

"Junk!" Deadwick moaned. "You're bringing me piles of junk! We already
live in junk! You zombies are practically made of it!"

"Look what I found!" said another child, as it came rushing down the hall. "I found a
book! And it's got words in it!"

"Books?" Deadwick said. "Who wants books? All they do is mess with your
head!"

He grabbed the book and threw it out the window.

"We're not here for a bedtime story! Somewhere around this place is that
relic of power, and I mean to find it!"

\*\*\*

No one noticed the dead governor. The people were too focused upon the
destruction around them, and the zombies were too focused upon causing
it.

Except for one. The zombie child with the straggly hair. He had thought
nothing of the death of the governor, as the two children had taken him
outside and stabbed him repeatedly. But then something had fallen from
the sky and landed next to the body. He had been about to continue on
his way, trying to find his next victim to play with, when he jolted
backward. That was odd. It grabbed all his attention. Not the governor,
but the item that had landed beside him. There had been something
familiar about it. Slowly, gears began to turn within his mind. An ember
flickered to life for just an instant. Walking into the middle of the
street, he awkwardly bent over and looked at the object.

It was a book.

He reached down and picked it up. It was bound in tattered leather. On
the cover was written in large, golden letters, Marloth, and below that,
A Child's Fairytale World. With dull fingers, he picked open the book
and sat down in the mud. There, surrounded by the carnage and horror of
a city being strangled to death, he began to read.

He read of a wonderful fairytale world, full of adventures and happy
endings. Of beautiful landscapes and fascinating creatures. Of a boy who
rose from obscurity to save a princess. Of a noble headmaster who
protected his children from the darkness and loved them dearly.

A tear. A genuine tear formed in the zombie child's eye. It rolled down
his rotted cheek and landed on the page. How could a heart of stone and
eyes of glass form a tear? He tried to continue reading, but he
couldn't. The pages were too blurry. For once in his existence, he felt
emotion.

Emptiness. He could feel his numbness to the world around him. He had
caught a glimpse of joy. A joy he would never experience. Now he saw
just exactly what it was he didn't have. Even now, he could feel his
body slowly disintegrating. He was naught but an illusion. A carcass
animated by dark sorcery and string.

For once in his life, he felt Dead.

\*\*\*

Ivy found Adelle cowering in her bedroom.

"Wow!" said Ivy. "That was one of the most exciting shows I've seen in a
long time! To be honest, I was figuring the court would be a bore, but
that talking raven sure spiced things up!"

She stopped and took a closer look at Adelle. "What's the matter with
you?"

"This is awful! Didn't you hear what it said? Dreadful things are coming
to get me! And everyone saw me in the courtroom! I shouldn't have been
there! My father is going to be furious!"

*"Please!* When are you going to grow up? That raven was babbling
nonsense and you're a fool to even think twice about what it said! And
if either of your parents try to make an issue about us being in the
courtroom I'll give them a piece of my mind!"

"No! Please don't! I---"

There was a knock at the door. Ivy went over and opened it to find one
of the duke's attendants standing before her. The attendant bowed and
said to her, "Miss Ivy, I have been asked to escort you to Duke Francis
at once!"

"Why? What's happening?"

"I do not know. But if you come with me he can tell you himself."

Ivy followed him out of the room while Adelle pulled herself together
enough to hurry after them. They were brought to the spacious room that had
been provided for the duke and wherein the duke himself was presently
stationed, rapidly giving orders to his servants as they came and went.
He saw Ivy and quickly approached her.

"What is going on?" she demanded.

"It is time we were leaving this place," he said. "The servants are
already packing your things. We will be leaving within the hour."

"Is this a joke? You aren't actually scared of that scene the raven
made?"

"By no means. I assure you, the timing of this gloom and doom is purely
coincidence. My business here is done and it is time we were elsewhere."

It was then that the King also arrived on the scene. He took stock of
the situation, noting the hurried packing and his daughter's presence,
and then strode up to the duke.

"I have just been informed that you are leaving us." said the King. "I
am sorry we do not have further time to talk. I was hoping we could come
to more of a resolution."

"There is no need to worry on that account. I have made my decision, and
in your favor. The queen convinced me to continue my allegiance to the
throne. Her arguments were very ... persuasive."

The King was taken aback by this. It was evident that he was not sure
whether to be happy or glare. But he didn't say anything.

"And you should be glad I am hurrying. I am off to speak to Lord
Dominicus. Last I heard from him, he was preparing to side with the
Merchant's Guild. I am going to try to sway him back to the throne. Then
I will speak with the Lady Mediev. If she can support you then you will
be in a very good position. But I do not know what she will say. Things
are still very precarious right now."

"Thank you for all your efforts." said the King. "I don't know where we
would be without you."

"Please! There is no need to thank me. The pleasure is all mine!"

They spoke for a short time more before the Duke resumed his
preparation. Once he and the children were ready, they gathered in the
entryway and said their farewells. Ivy stood with Adelle for several
moments before managing to speak.

"I'm not going to lie: I won't miss this place. But I will miss you.
I've never met anyone like you before. I feel like I don't need to worry
about you stabbing me in the back. It's as if you care about me."

"I do care about you! You're the first friend I've ever had! Except for
grown-up friends; that's not exactly the same thing."

"No, they aren't. But listen, you need to come to the City of Orphans
soon. You could stay at my house and then I could show you what a
*really* good time is like."

Adelle said she would love to but did not know if her parents would ever
allow her. Ivy said a few more choice words about the King and Queen and
then the rest of the children said their farewells. Harris gave her a
very warm parting, Bobby finally did say something about enjoying her
company, and Osmand didn't say anything at all. After that, the group
climbed into the carriages and disappeared through the gates. Adelle was
already missing them before they were out of sight.

\*\*\*

By the time the zombie child got to his feet, the carnage had ceased.
Ceased, that is, simply because there was nothing left to destroy. Most
of the other troupes had already left to find new things to torment.
Only a few zombie children remained to scour the debris and ensure that
they hadn't left anything alive.

The zombie child closed the book and began to walk about. There was
something familiar about this place. As though walking through a dream,
he passed through the smoldering architecture. Bodies were strewn
everywhere. The embers of what had only moments before been roaring
fires were now shriveling away because there was nothing left to burn.
Though the landmarks were all but gone, the zombie child was certain it
had once read of this place.

This was Rhumeveld, the City of Wonders. Or a mockery of it. Sinking
back into the debris, the zombie child opened the book and flipped
through the pages, eventually reaching the spot that described the city
of wonders. It was a beautiful city of marble and crystal, all of which
reflected the light in a dazzling manner, but no one could see any of
that now. Depressed, the zombie child dropped the book and collapsed
into the mud.

After a time, Deadwick the goblin came around the corner, trailed by
several zombie children. They had not found any legendary relics of
power, but they had found a big gun, and Deadwick considered that worth
the trouble.

"Hey you!" Deadwick called out, "What are you doing sitting? We're
clearing out. No time to hang around."

The zombie child did not look up. It merely lay there with its face in
the mud, staring at the book that rested before them.

"Is it dead?" asked one of the others.

"Off course it is!" the goblin muttered. "You all are! Now get up, you
stupid zombie!"

The zombie child sat up and looked at him dumbly. "Don't call me
zombie," it said. "I have a name you know."

"No you don't. And don't talk back to me!"

"Well now I do. My name is James, like the character in this book."

"That's ridiculous! Zombies can't read!" Deadwick picked up the book and
looked at it as though it were poisonous, not that he could be affected
by anything like poison.

"Well I can. This is a wonderful book. All of the stories are vaguely
similar to our world, just happier. And the children in this book are
alive!"

At this everyone began to laugh.

"Who ever heard of children who were alive?" said one of them.

But Deadwick wasn't laughing. Things weren't right. This zombie was
acting far too smart for a zombie. He examined the book more closely. He
sensed trouble. There was something very bad going on, and he had to
deal with it at once.

"I don't want to hear any more of this! It's just a bunch of stupid
fairytales!" he shouted, throwing the book at the zombie child. It hit
him square in the head, knocking him back into the mud. "We're leaving
this instant! We've got work to do!" More zombies gathered around them,
curious about the commotion. The fallen zombie child quickly picked
itself from the ground and took hold of the book.

"Well I'm not going!" it said. "I believe this book is real! I don't
believe we were meant to be dead and go about killing people who
weren't!"

That was it. Inside the goblin's mind, books were balanced and accounts
were settled.

"Kids, I have an idea of how you can all have more fun!" A cruel smile
spread across his face as he turned toward the zombie child. He began to
speak slowly and methodically, like the caress of a torturer. "Let's ...
play ... with ... *James*."

\*\*\*

Once again, Adelle was alone. All of her new friends had been torn away
from her. Her initial fear of the raven was gone. Now she hated it. What
right did that knavish bird have to force himself upon the court and do
nothing but rant and rave? If she were queen, she would have all ravens
put to death. What nasty things to say! They were ugly creatures to
begin with, and talking in no way improved them. And now it had scared
away the duke, and her friends with him. It had humiliated her and
revealed her disobedience to the whole court and her father had been
furious and had scolded her severely. She had never seen him so upset.
But worst of all, ever since the raven incident her parents had begun
openly fighting with each other. She had suspected in the past that
there had been arguments, but she had never heard them before. Now she
was covering her head with her pillow in a pathetic attempt to block out
the shouting. It wasn't working. Everything was going wrong.

Finally the shouting died down and was replaced by the silent trickling
of tears across her pillow.

"Hello little girl."

Adelle lifted her head and looked behind her. There was a man in her
room! A man she didn't recognize.

"Who are you?" she exclaimed, putting several pillows between her and
the man.

"What? You mean you actually don't know who I am? I am Jakob Damond, the
Toymaker! Surely you've heard of my toyshop?"

Adelle nodded warily. "Ivy talked about it. She said your toys
practically come to life."

"And they do! I have the power to make a child's most wonderful dreams
come true! Just the other day I met a boy that was lame in both feet. He
wanted to walk. But I did something better than that, I gave him a
flying carpet and now he is soaring over the heads of those who once
looked down on him."

"That was very kind of you." said Adelle.

"Yes, well, it's what I do. Which brings me to why I am here: I couldn't
help but notice that you were in great distress, and I was wondering if
there was anything I could do to help you?"

"Forgive me, I was being selfish. All my friends have gone and my
parents hate me and a raven came and caused such a stir that now the
entire castle is talking about me, and not in a flattering manner."

"Your parents don't realize how lucky they are to have such a daughter
as you! You deserve their love!"

"I think deep down they love me." said Adelle. "But I'm not so sure
anymore."

"You are so underappreciated! But they aren't to be blamed, really. The
world has not yet seen what you are fully capable of, but I can see it.
You are intelligent, noble, bold, graceful, and above all, the most
beautiful creature I have ever beheld!"

Adelle wiped the tears from her face and attempted a smile. "Thank you."
she said timidly.

"For what? I'm merely stating the obvious! You have so much potential!
The world just needs to see it!"

"But I don't know that it ever will. All my life I've been imprisoned
within this dreary castle; and I will be for so much longer."

The man's smile broadened. "But I can change that. I have the power to
make a child's most impossible dreams come true. Would you like to break
free from these walls and experience Marloth? I could make it so! Do you
want adventure? I'll have adventure fall from the sky like rain! Do you
want to be adored and respected as the royal grace you are? I'll open
the eyes of the world to your elegance!"

"That all sounds most enchanting, but how can you do such things?"

"Ah, that is my little secret. Through toys mostly. Toys are far more
powerful than people realize. Only children seem to have any idea of
their real value."

"But how could I ever repay you for such things?"

"Don't worry about it. Down the line I may need you to dust a certain
piece of literature for me, but for now you---"

Before the man could finish, the voice of Adelle's mother could be heard
calling from outside the room.

"I had best be off," said the man. "But before I go, I must inform you
that there is one item you'll be needing before I set to work. A crown.
A symbol of royalty and beauty!"

"But where am I to find---"

"Adelle!" her mother shouted as she stepped into the room. "Who in the
world are you talking to?"

"Mother, allow me to introduce Mr. Jakob Damond!"

"But there's no one here!" said the queen.

Adelle looked about her in surprise. They were alone.

\*\*\*

James slowly opened his eyes and looked around him. He was lying on a
stretcher in a room filled with many other stretchers on all of which
were many other persons. He had the fairytale book tightly clenched in
his hands. Aside from James, the only other person moving was a strongly
built nurse. She was currently occupied examining the other people and
one by one tucking them to sleep. She did this by pulling the covers
over each person's head.

As James lay there watching the nurse, a nearby door flew open and in
stepped the King, followed by two attendants.

"So this is the only survivor?" he said, looking at James.

The nurse continued on with her work. "If you like." she replied,
thumping one of the people on the head to see if he responded and then
tucking him into bed. "I myself wouldn't call him a survivor. Hasn't
done anything but moan and whine in his sleep."

"Well, he's staring right at me." said the King.

The nurse turned to look at James. "Oh. So he is." she said, returning
to her work.

The King approached James. "Tell me, boy, what was it that leveled
Rhumeveld to cinders?"

James didn't know what to say. He just looked about him blankly.

"Don't be afraid. I'm your King. I'm here to protect you!"

James didn't respond.

"Drat it, boy! This is of the gravest importance! What the blazes
happened there?"

"He's still probably in shock or some such." said the nurse. "He needs
some peace and quiet."

"Fine. I'll be back tomorrow. Notify me immediately if he says so much
as a word."

The nurse wagged her head about as if to say *"who cares?"* and ushered
the King out of the room. After a while, James sat up for a better look
at the room. For once the nurse paused long enough to actually look at
him. She wasn't an official nurse really. All of the real nurses in the
castle had caught some flu and keeled over. While her main profession
was that of seamstress, she was also the castle Jill-of-All-Trades and
had been chosen to fill their place. She was a Tough Old Byrd, and it
was said that if you gave her barbed wire, she'd weave it into a dress.
She didn't know enough about nursing to take a pulse, or she would have
noticed that James had none. All she knew about nursing was that if
someone was full of holes or had an arm ripped off, you sewed them back
together, just like any old garment. But she did know a thing or two
about children.

"I bet what you really need is some fresh air and a good time." she
said. Picking him up by the scruff of his neck, she carried him over to
the window and pointed below them.

"See that garden down there? Just go through the door behind us and
follow the stairs to your left and you'll be right in it. Go frolic
about or whatever it is you kids do." James felt compelled to obey her.
Leaping to his feet with surprising ease, he bolted through the door and
down the stairs. Sure enough, after descending several flights of
stairs, he found himself standing before the most wondrous garden he had
ever seen.

\*\*\*

As James walked about the garden, he came upon a girl sitting in the
grass, looking idly at the birds flying overhead. James stood there for
a long time, studying her curiously. There was something vaguely
familiar about her. After some time had passed, the girl happened to
look about her and spy the boy.

"Why hello!" she said in surprise. "Another child! Where ever did you
come from?"

James didn't know how to reply to this and resorted to an ambivalent
shrug of his shoulders.

"You look hurt!" said the girl. "Are you in much pain?"

James shook his head.

"Here, why don't you---" Adelle suddenly stopped. "I almost forgot; my
parents do not want me to be alone in the company of a man, or a boy.
Except for my father, of course; I can be alone with him. But I am
supposed to be very cautious about boys. They can appear nice but have
very inappropriate intentions." She said this as though she had some
idea what that meant.

"Okay." said James, and he turned to leave.

"Wait!" said Adelle. She quickly examined the grounds around them. "On
second thought, this garden is in the middle of the castle; anyone can
see us. Surely there is nothing to worry about in such a public place.
Look, Miss Bethany is staring at us right now."

Sure enough, from a distant window the castle nurse could be seen eyeing
them suspiciously.

Adelle motioned toward the trees. "What I was going to say was 'Why
don't you come sit in the shade?'" After some timid deliberation, James
crossed the lawn and sat down a little ways from her.

"There, said Adelle. "No harm." She pulled several loops of colored
string from one of her pockets and proceeded to weave pretty patterns by
stretching the loops across her fingers. It appeared to take every ounce
of her concentration, but she didn't need concentration to talk.

"In case you're wondering, I am Princess Adelle. My parents are the King
and Queen of Marloth. I live here all by myself, and I've been so dying
for company! Well, I did have company for a while; Ivy was here, and a
few boys. But they had to leave, and now I'm more lonely then ever!
Well, now I'm not, since you're here, but I was just a moment ago. Can
you believe that I'm the only child who lives in this castle? I'm a
princess! You'd think that I of all people would have friends! But where
are my manners, going on and on about myself! What about you? Exactly
who are you?"

"My name is James." said James. "I'm just a boy."

Adelle nodded as though that was in some way profound and as if to say
that she had suspected as much. "So, what do you do for fun?" she asked.

James furrowed his brow and tried to think. He couldn't recollect ever
identifying things in terms of "fun". But as he mulled over the concept,
an unfamiliar idea began to surface.

"I like to read." he said at last.

"Ah, yes! Like the book in your hands."

James looked down at the book and nodded.

"What sort of book is it?" she asked.

"It's a book of fairytales."

"How fascinating! What are some of the fairytales?"

"They're all about a distant land full of magic and adventure. Most of
the stories involve a man named Edward Tralvorkemen. He was a very good
and wise man. He was the headmaster of an orphanage, which was a
sanctuary from the darkness. The headmaster and his children would
frequently enter the world to fight evil and help people in need. They
are very exciting stories!"

"My mother used to tell me bedtime stories." said Adelle. "But she
doesn't much anymore. Once she told me a story about an orphanage, but I
don't think it was as happy as the one you describe."

"A lot of it isn't happy. But all of its stories have happy endings."

"I like happy endings." said Adelle.

There was quiet for a time. Then a thought struck the princess.

"You are new here! That must mean you've been beyond the castle walls!"

James nodded.

"What is it like out there? Is it truly exciting?"

"Yes," James replied slowly. "It is exciting. But I don't think you'd
like it."

"And why is that?"

"It's sort of ... well ... unpleasant."

"Unpleasant? What could make it unpleasant?"

"Well ... there's a lot of death for one thing ... "

This didn't register with Adelle. "What sort of places have you been
to?"

"I've been to Rhumeveld."

"The City of Wonders! I'd love so much to go there! What is it like?"

"Not much is happening there right now."

Adelle nodded. "I'm sure its major events are seasonal. What about the
City of Orphans? My friend Ivy lives there and she says it's the most
lively place in Marloth! Have you been there?"

"Yes," said James. "But it's always changing. I don't know what it would
be like now."

"How fascinating! I can't wait to see it! My parents won't let me leave
the castle, not even for a holiday, but things are going to change. Soon
I'm going to leave this place. Then I'll see the world far away and have
adventures just like in the fairytales!"

"Maybe your parents have good reason to keep you here." said James.
"People who have adventures in this world tend to end up dead."

"Oh James! You always did have a morbid air about you."

Both of them turned to look at each other in surprise. "I'm sorry!" said
Adelle. "I know it's silly but I feel like we've met before. But the
thought is so hazy."

"Probably just a dream." said James.

Adelle shook herself slowly and looked about in agitation. "It's getting
late." she said. "I'd better be getting back to my room now. It was nice
meeting you. Will I see you again?"

"I'd like that." said James. Adelle smiled and made her way out of the
garden. James' gaze was frozen upon her. Even after she had left, he
could still see her there, smiling and talking and playing with her
string. He couldn't get the vision of her out of his mind. Perhaps she
had been able to set aside any idea of seeing James before, but he
couldn't. He *had* seen her before. He was sure of it. But the details
were as rotted as the rest of his memories. Exactly where had he seen
her? Where had he read that book before? Who had he been before he died?
He was sure his memories were all wrong because they were nothing like
the hellish world he was now trapped in. Shaking his head, he set off in
the direction of the infirmary.

"Dying sucks." he said.

\*\*\*

James returned to the infirmary only to find that the nurse had gone and
he was all alone with the sleeping people. They slept very soundly.
Walking over to his bed, he hopped up and leaned against the windowpane
to gaze at the garden below.

"Are you the boy named James?" said a voice.

James turned to see one of the sleeping persons stirring under its
covers.

"I repeat: Are you the boy named James?"

"Yes." James replied uncertainly.

"Good, for I bring you bad news."

Now James was puzzled. "How can a sleeping person bring anything? You
just lie there."

"Stupid fool!" it shouted. From beneath the covers burst forth a jet
black raven.

"I am the Doombringer!" said the raven. "I have come to foretell the
darke tidings of thy future!"

Oh. James was used to this sort of thing. "Very well. Let's have it."

"Your doom is thus: very soon you shall die!"

"Sorry, won't happen."

"What do you mean, it won't happen? I'm the prophet here, and I say
you're going to die!"

"Well you're a little late. I'm already dead."

The raven hopped up to James for a closer examination.

"You're a zombie!" it shrieked, more out of anger than fear.

"Yup. Must be some mistake."

"I don't make mistakes!" the raven screamed. It began to jerk its head
back and forth violently, apparently its method of thinking. "I can be
destroyed." said James. "But it's not exactly dying. Technically, I
don't have a life to lose. I'm little more than a machine powered by
magic.

"Well that's just great. So now I'm conversing with a machine. What is
this world coming to? Since the beginning of time I have borne the doom
of endless souls, and my words have never proven false! It has to be
this fouled world. Everything here is twisted!"

The raven calmed down enough to study James. "Prophecies are complicated
things. There's often some kind of trick to them. Maybe you'll come back
to life and *then* die. I'd love to hang around and see how this plays
out, but I have more doom that needs to be delivered before nightfall."

And with that, the raven flew out the window. James sat around for a
moment and then decided he'd explore the castle and see if he could find
that girl again.

\*\*\*

At the same time, one of the royal attendants was hurrying through the
castle. It was a daily ritual for attendants to be scurrying about the
castle in search of the King. Normally one would expect to find a King
on his throne, but the King was rarely in the throne room. He preferred
to be on his feet and on the move. After a frantic dash, the attendant
finally caught up with him along one of the corridors.

"Your majesty, the rangers say they've found the source of all this
mischief that's been going on throughout the kingdom!" piped the
attendant. "They say its little children. No ordinary children, but
demons!"

The King half nodded as he and the attendant passed through the halls.
"Yes. That's what I figured it was."

"You know of them, sir? Then it's true?"

"Of course. They're zombie children. What do you think me and the boys
have been hunting all these years? There's no deer. There's no bears.
There isn't even a chipmunk anymore. Just zombie children."

"Sir, surely you jest!"

"What was that?"

"I said, 'that sounds like such a dangerous pastime,' sir! From what the
rangers say, these children are bloodthirsty!"

"And jolly good sport at that! Nearly indestructible! You just about
have to reduce them to base components before they'll stop trying to
kill you! But not to worry, we're keeping abreast of their growth. If
you haven't noticed, we go hunting nearly every day. You should come
along some time. You could use some excitement."

"Forgive me, sir, but I cannot even imagine myself attempting to hunt
murderous, undead children!"

"Suit yourself. We're going to be heading out within the hour. Looks
like we have our hands full."

"But what about Rhumeveld? Do you think it could have been attacked by
zombie children as well?"

"It's not very likely. Rhumeveld was a heavily fortified city. Nothing
short of an army could have breached its walls. Zombie children are too
scattered and disorganized to compose such an army. It's possible that
zombie children were involved, but they alone couldn't have plundered
Rhumeveld. Have you found me any better rangers?"

"Not yet, sir. But the best of the rangers we do have are already
exploring the ruins and should be arriving back from Rhumeveld sometime
tomorrow with more information."

"More information? Dare I hope for better results than what you and
these rangers have been giving me?"

The attendant took a chance that the King was speaking rhetorically, and
attempted to change the focus of the conversation. "And what about the
boy? The boy they found in the ruins? He was an eye witness!"

"He's either stunned or an idiot. Maybe he'll snap out of it, but I
wouldn't put my money on it."

"Doesn't it seem a little suspicious that he *was* the only survivor and
that he *is* a child? What if he's one of those ... *demon children?*"

"I thought the same thing, but I looked into his eyes, and I could see
life in 'em. Some children it's hard to tell, but it was pretty easy to
see that he's at least *alive* if nothing else."

\*\*\*

Somehow, James makes a wrong turn and winds up in some alternate
dimension. (This is Marloth; things like that happen.)

The dimension within which James found himself was an endless maze of
bookshelves that stretched both horizontally and vertically in all
directions until they vanished into the darkness. Water cascaded down
from these bookcases to such an extent that if there was a floor, it was
so flooded as to be completely hidden from view. But there were many
things to stand on. There were floating bits of furniture and occasional
spots of dry, mossy land that rose above the murky water, and there were
also pilings and the tops of shorter bookcases that barely rose above
the water.

Several paces in front of him there floated a desk behind which sat a
short, fat little man. Except that on close inspection it wasn't a man
at all, but a toad. The toad was wearing a tweed vest that was tightly
buttoned about his waist. Upon his flat nose rested the largest pair of
glasses James had ever seen. Through these the toad was carefully
examining an ancient tome that was stretched open upon the desk. As he
read, strange misty forms consisting of vivid colors rose from the book
and then faded into the darkness. Every now and then, the toad would
close the book while keeping a webbed thumb between the pages he was
reading and dip the book several times into the water.

The toad didn't seem to have noticed the boy's presence.

James looked down at the book of fairytales and then back at the toad.
That had to be Mr. Mosspuddle, the librarian. And that meant that this
was the Great Library!

Suddenly there appeared in front of the toad a shimmering, water-like
figure. Its form was as that of a human, except featureless. It had no
distinct legs and, instead of walking, it floated in the air.

"Hello." said Mr. Mosspuddle. "It's good to see you again." Though he
did not sound like he meant it.

The figure did not return the greeting but instead spoke in an echoing
voice: "Why do men seek to play and chortle, when just like men all fun
is mortal?"

Mr. Mosspuddle looked perplexed. "I don't know."

"Nor do men." said the figure.

"That's all very interesting," said Mr. Mosspuddle. "Though I doubt
that's why you are here."

"I am here to review your performance. Or lack of it. But first, we are
not alone." James jumped in surprise as the figure turned and looked at
him even though he was standing in the darkest of shadows.

"Come forward." said the figure. James' mind bounced back and forth
frantically. Should he run away or go along with this strange creature?
He wanted to run, but he was curious and the creature had a very
commanding presence. Timidly, he stepped into the dim light.

"A visitor!" exclaimed Mr. Mosspuddle. "I can't remember the last time
we had a visitor! The glory days have returned!"

"This entity does not belong here!" said the figure. As it moved hints
of color rippled across its surface.

James gathered some of his courage. "The Great Library was always a
public place! Who are you to be saying who does and doesn't belong
here?"

"I am Message, the collective voice and ear of the Wizard's Council. You
had best be grateful I am merely a creation of the Wizards and not a
Wizard myself, or I would disintegrate you for your impudence. How is it
that you are here?"

"A door. I went through it."

"Yes, and how did you find this door?"

"Well, I was talking to this girl, and then I met this raven, and
then---"

"You mean the princess?"

"Why, yes. How did you know?"

"Because she is the only girl."

"What do you mean? Is everyone else boys?"

The figure shook its head. "There are no boys in this world. There is
only one girl. Period."

"Well then what am I?"

"Clearly you are a zombie." said Message.

"I hoped it wasn't so obvious. But I'm still a boy, just a zombified
one." Then, as the rest of what Message had said caught up with him.
"Are you saying that there are no other living children? I could have
sworn I heard of other children, like in the City of Orphans."

"No. Everyone else thinks there are children, but they are all zombies.
It's just that nobody wants to admit it. Stupid people."

Message turned to the librarian. "There is still a doorway that has not
been sealed. You were supposed to seal all of them!"

"I'm sorry! I'm sorry! I'll seal it right away! I promise!"

"Your incompetence is astounding. Don't forget, we are still looking for
someone to replace you." (A thought that clearly frightened the
librarian.)

"No one could replace Mr. Mosspuddle!" said James. "He's the best
librarian in the world!"

"I could replace him." said Message. "I am fully capable of performing
all of his duties, and I would perform them better. But there is only
one of me and I have more important things to do than shepherd books."

"What duties could you perform better?"

"I do not need to convince you. But since the toad is present and may be
harboring doubts of my superiority as well, I will provide at least one
example: Mr. Mosspuddle requires a catalog to keep track of the complete
inventory of this library. I already have its entire inventory within my
memory banks. Which is an impressive feat considering that the Great
Library contains every book ever written."

"Really? I didn't know that. Does it have Marloth?"

"This is a library, not a cosmotory. It holds books, not worlds. Of
course, every book is vying for a piece of reality, but that's a
different subject."

"No, I don't mean the world of Marloth, I mean the *book* of Marloth."

"There is no such thing as a *book* of Marloth!"

"Actually," said Mr. Mosspuddle. "I've read accounts of such a book. I
don't know if any of those accounts are accurate, but if I were not
constrained by my duties to the library I might be out searching for
such a book."

"The book of Marloth is real! I have it with me!"

At this the voice that came from Message rose in pitch. "Nonsense! Let
me see this book of yours!" Message stretched forth its hand and
motioned toward James. The book flew out of James' grasp and was caught
by the figure. Message did not open the book but instead passed its hand
through it as though absorbing the words through osmosis.

"It is nothing but a child's fairytale!" said Message. "It's not even a
real book!"

"Of course it's a real book? What else could it be---a *fake* book?"

"Behold!" said Message and threw the book open wide. "It has no power!
Real books alter the world around them when read! They redefine reality!
This doesn't do anything. It merely sits there."

"You're wrong!" said James. "There's something different about this
book. There's some deep magic about it that none of this world can
understand!"

James slumped down in dejection. "I just don't completely understand it
myself."

"You are not governed by reason." said Message. He turned and dropped
the book on the librarian's desk. "You have expressed an interest in the
idea of this book. That is not healthy. You are forbidden to read it. In
fact, I order you to destroy it. And to remove this cretin from the
Library."

And without any warning or further words, the apparition disappeared as
suddenly as it had appeared. Mr. Mosspuddle looked at James miserably.

"I don't want to turn out anyone from the Library, especially a
*visitor*."

"Don't worry; I'll leave. But it didn't say anything about you having to
remove me right away."

The toad thought about this and then nodded. "Message *is* a stickler
for precision. It would probably agree to such a technicality."

James looked at Marloth, which was still resting on the desk. "Are you
going to try to destroy Marloth?" he asked. James only asked out of
curiosity; he wasn't about to let the librarian destroyed it.

"No." said Mr. Mosspuddle. "I will be in grave trouble if I don't, but I
cannot destroy it. I cannot destroy any book. It is against my nature."

James walked over to the desk and picked up Marloth.

"Well at least that Message guy didn't destroy it himself."

"Message can order me to destroy a book, but it cannot directly destroy
books itself. The rules are complicated as to what Message can and
cannot do. The wizards carefully limit its abilities and autonomy to
keep Message from becoming independent and rebelling. But they are
equally concerned of my rebelling. They keep close watch over me and the
Library, and I'm afraid they will know if I don't follow through with
their wishes! Just take the book and please keep it out of their sight.
Don't let them know it still exists!"

"Why do they care so much about you and the Library?"

"Because books are an essential part of the wizards' magic. They would
be at a loss without them."

"Are you saying that without the Library they would simply be ordinary
people?"

"Very smart ordinary people, yes. They may still have a few books of
their own, but mostly they pooled their resources here so they could
share each others' knowledge."

"That doesn't sound like the wizards I've read about; they were a lot
more competitive."

"Wizards are still competitive, but not in the way they used to be. The
older wizards made more sense to me: they were always trying to outdo
each other in their knowledge and abilities. But these new wizards have
a far more communal idea of competition. They are less concerned about
knowing more than other wizards and more concerned about ensuring that
other wizards don't know more than they do. So they forced each other to
pool all of their resources into the Library to ensure that no wizard
has access to information another wizard doesn't."

James looked around. "That's strange. If that was the case I would
expect there to be all sorts of wizards walking around the Library."

"The wizards rarely visit here. If they need a book, they just summon
it. Which is annoying because such power and convenience makes wizards
very careless about due dates."

James frowned. "None of this is how it's supposed to be! Wizards
shouldn't be controlling the Library. And there should be visitors
everywhere reading the books!"

"You keep saying things like that. Where are you getting all of these
ideas about the Library from? And you speak like you know so much about
me. How is that?"

"Because you and the Library are in this book. It tells of how you were
the leading expert in interpreting it."

"Interpreting what?"

"The book."

"The book I am in?"

"Yes."

"But that doesn't make any sense!"

James shrugged. "I don't know. I can't even read the whole thing. It's
written in many different languages and I only know one of them."

"This I have to see!" said Mr. Mosspuddle and then abruptly stopped.
"No. I can't. The Wizards Council told me to destroy it---which I'm
already disobeying---and not to read it---which would only add further
condemnation---so I need to restrain myself."

"Why do you care what they say? They don't own this library! The
headmaster does! *He* made it!"

"I don't know what headmaster you are referring to. No one knows who
built the Library, and there is no official owner of it. But a large
number of people who can hurl fireballs and turn people into salt have
taken a keen interest in it, and that makes them as good as owners."

"That's not the way it's supposed to be. The headmaster is supposed to
be in charge."

"And who is this headmaster you keep speaking of?"

"He's one of the most powerful and upright men in the world. It talks
about him in my book."

"Again with your book! Stop using arguments from it! I can't read it and
so I can't address whatever ideas you have from it!"

"But if you looked at it you'd understand what I'm talking about!"

"I can't do that! Stop tormenting me! Go! Go back to the castle! I need
to seal that doorway, and you can't stay here."

"But---"

"Visiting hours are over." said Mr. Mosspuddle. By this point he looked
thoroughly frightened, and it was fear that drove him to take hold of
James' coat and forcefully guide him to the doorway. James wanted to
stay, and he could have easily picked up the toad and tossed him into
the murky gloom, but Mr. Mosspuddle was one of the legendary characters
from his fairytale book, and his respect for the librarian caused James
to oblige him. Once James had stepped through the doorway and was back
in the castle hall, the librarian bid him farewell and promptly shut the
door.

James stood there for a moment, staring at the door. Out of curiosity,
he took hold of the knob and turned it. To his surprise, the door
opened, but not by its hinges. Instead, it fell forward on top of him as
though it had never been attached to anything, revealing a solid stone
wall behind it. One more doorway to the Great Library was now closed
forever.

\*\*\*

The King was just about to leave his bedchamber when the queen hurried
into the room.

"Did you hear the news about Duke Francis?" she asked him.

"No. What is it?"

"He's dead. Murdered. They found his body just yesterday."

"Murdered? But how?"

"The messenger didn't know. But he made it clear the duke did not die
from natural causes."

"Was the duke able to speak to Lord Dominicus before he died?"

"No. I don't think so."

The King slammed his fist against the wall. "Everything is falling
apart!"

"It's not over yet. There is still hope." the queen said, though she
sounded like she was trying to convince herself as well as him.

The King straightened. "I don't know about hope, but I'm not one to go
down without a fight. I need to get to the bottom of this Rhumeveld
business. The darkness out there is spreading, and I need to know what
we are dealing with. I'll try that boy again to see if I can get
anything out of him."

He left the queen sitting on their bed, trying her best to pull herself
together. She tried to keep a firm countenance around the King, but
internally she was struggling to keep herself from falling apart like
the kingdom around her. She needed to relax. Considering all of her
options, she decided upon a bath. A bath would help a lot. She called
for one of the servants.

\*\*\*

Adelle left her room and as she was heading for the stairs she stopped
by the royal chambers to see if the queen was inside.

"Mother?" she called, "are you there?"

After receiving no answer, she was about to leave when something caught
her eye. There, resting atop of the dresser was her mother's diadem.
This was the first time she had seen it away from her mother's head. It
was slim and elegant, silver like moonlight and nearly as ethereal. In
an instant, all of the millions of times her mother had ever scolded her
passed through her mind. She knew she should leave at once, but the
diadem was mesmerizing. Slowly, she tiptoed across the room for a closer
look. The closer she got, the more attractive it looked. She had to try
it on. There was the mirror right in front of her. She could put it on,
take it off, and leave. Her mother would never know.

She eagerly took hold of the diadem, lifted it into the air, and set it
upon her head. Instantly, she felt more mature and sophisticated. She
was Queen Adelle. Her mother had no right bossing her around. Well, the
queen was going to have to make do without her crown for a while, for
Adelle wasn't about to give it up.

She stepped out into the hallway and bumped into James.

"Oh, excuse me!" she said, straightening herself.

James didn't reply. There was something different about her. He suddenly
felt much younger than she.

"Are you all right?" she asked.

"That crown." James murmured.

"Oh, yes! Isn't it lovely?"

"Where did you get it?" asked James.

"Oh, I've always had it. I only wear it on special occasions."

Zombies don't know fear. They have nothing to fear. But contrary to
popular belief, they do feel something. They feel happy, or at least
something close to it. It comes from being completely animated without
the need of things like glands, nerves, and organs. If they had anything
to worry about, they didn't know about it. But James was not happy. He
hadn't been happy since he had found the book. And now he was terrified.

"The toymaker." he said breathlessly.

Adelle looked at him in wide-eyed surprise. "How did you know? I'm
meeting him tonight! He's going to take me away from this dreadful
place. Promise you won't tell anyone?"

James didn't move. Except that his mind was moving. It was tearing
backwards at a pace of a million miles per moment. Bits and pieces of
his rotted brains were connecting themselves back together again, and
they didn't like what they were seeing. Fragments of an age old story of
an orphanage were surfacing. A story full of dark occurrences of which
mothers never spoke of.

"It's happening all over again!" he shouted.

"What ever are you talking about?"

"Except that this time it's not me, it's you!"

"Come now, you can make more sense than that! Tell me what's going on!"

But before James could respond, the door flew open and the two children
found themselves staring up at the queen. And she was furious.

"Adelle! What are you doing with my crown?" she roared.

Adelle looked at her mother, looked at James, looked back at her mother,
and then shot across the hall and into her room. The queen lunged after
her, but Adelle had already bolted the door behind her.

"Adelle!" The queen shrieked. "Open this door at once! You hear me?
Every additional moment this door remains locked is only increasing the
punishment that's awaiting you!"

Pausing for breath, she noticed James. Her eyes narrowed. "You must be
her accomplice." she stated coldly.

James didn't like the way this was going at all. Following Adelle's
lead, he bolted down the hall and disappeared into the stairway.

\*\*\*

The King looked around the infirmary. There was no one there but
sleeping people.

"Where's that blasted boy?" he growled.

"You Highness!" called the attendant as he rounded a corner. "One of the
rangers just arrived with news about the city!" The attendant and a
ranger came up the hall and stopped in front of the King.

"Well it's about time! You had better be of more use than that
half-witted boy."

The ranger managed to shrug this off and proceeded with his report. "I
was over the city like a fine tooth comb and I think I know what
attacked the place. Children. Zombified children. A whole army of them,
I reckon."

"Zombies? An army of them? But that's impossible! Where in the world
would an army of zombies come from? What would keep them from killing
each other and wandering off?"

"It was hard to say. There was definitely a vast number of them, and
they appeared to have approached the city from all directions. I smelled
magic. It was everywhere. Something is helping them; channeling them.
Maybe a wizard."

"Wizards? This is getting worse and worse! Where is this army now?"

"That's the worse part. Their tracks just disappeared. I have no idea
where they could have gone. They are still out there, and they are
probably on the move."

"An army of zombie children." the King muttered. "Rhumeveld is not very
far from here."

"Do you think they would actually attack the castle?"

"I've heard of stranger things." said the King. "They leveled a whole
city."

"Our forces are already positioned in the two passes that lead from
Rhumeveld to Castle Elington. It would take several days for this undead
army to circumvent those passes. Our scouts should be able to locate
them within that time, and then we can directly engage them."

"That sounds promising, though it all hangs on whether or not we can
find an army that has so far eluded us. If these enemies are using
magic, who knows what we are up against. They leveled Rhumeveld! And you
said---"

The King suddenly froze. Slowly, he wheeled around and looked one more
time into the infirmary. As he did so, the nurse came back to cart away
the sleeping people.

"Nurse!" the King shouted. "What sort of state did you find that boy
in?"

"Why, he was in pretty sore shape. I had to sew back a couple limbs and
patch up his innards a good deal, but I'm good at that sort of thing.
Before long, he was up and about as though nothing had happened!"

The King's face contorted with rage.

"Have you lost your wits? That was no boy! It was a bloody zombie!"

\*\*\*

Once the sounds of her mother's ranting faded into the distance, Adelle
relaxed and backed away from the door. What she needed now was some real
company to talk to. Aside from that weird boy, she was the only child
her age in the castle, and all of the adults had their heads on
backwards. There were only one other group of people she had left to
turn to. Searching about her room, she gathered her favorite dolls.

"What would you like to do?" she asked them.

"Let's have a tea party!" she spoke for them.

\*\*\*

The queen stopped her shouting and leaned against the wall. She was
suddenly struck by a wave of weakness and nausea, as though she were
coming down with a fever. She started to make her way back to her room.
She was having an increasingly difficult time walking. Her skin felt
clammy and was beginning to itch. She stopped half way across the hall
to look at her hand.

Her skin was cracking and folding over. Her back grew heavier. Her form
began to sag under the weight. Frightened, she rushed back to her room
as fast as her failing body could take her and stopped in front of the
mirror. And nearly had a heart attack. She was aging. Aging before her
increasingly blurry eyes.

"How is this happening?" she moaned, as she watched the color slowly
drain from her hair.

Her hands shaking, she rushed to her dresser and rummaged through its
contents, throwing one drawer after another onto the floor. Eventually
she found what she was looking for: a large box of Jillybons. Without
missing a beat she tore the lid from the container and began to eat them
in rapid succession.

\*\*\*

James had no sooner reached the bottom of the stairs then he found
himself surrounded by several guards.

"Going somewhere?" said the King.

James instinctively tried to pass between the guards but they closed
upon him tightly and grabbed his arms.

"So, thought you'd have a look around? Spy a bit? Perhaps even try to
get the gates open?"

"That's not true!" James shouted. "I wouldn't do anything like that!"

"Of course not!" said the King. "After all, you're a civilized dead
person! It was coincidence that you were in the middle of a recently
desecrated city. Just passing through, no doubt."

The guards snickered.

"But here's the situation. We need information, and we need it now. Tell
us where this army of yours is, and what it's up to."

"I don't know anything about them!" said James. "They beat me and chased
me away!"

"Ha! Perhaps I should rephrase things. Tell me all about the undead army
or I'll cut you up into pieces the size of olives. I know a thing or two
about zombies, and I know they can't do much harm when they're comprised
of a million separate pieces!"

"No!" James screamed. "Please don't cut me into little pieces!"

"And I'll oblige you. Just tell me where's that blasted army!"

"If I knew I would tell you! But I don't!"

"So you choose the hard way! Then again, cutting you up may take some
time, and we don't have much of that. Search him first. Maybe he's
carrying some information that will save us the trouble of persuading
him."

While three of the guards held James tight, a fourth began to search his
person.

"Not much in his pockets, just needle and thread. But here! He has a
book in his knapsack!"

"By George!" said the King. "It's the book of rules!" He grabbed the
book and briefly skimmed its pages. Then he bent over so that he was eye
to eye with James and growled, "So you're the thief who stole our book!"

"No!" said James. "I didn't steal it! I found it in Rhumeveld!"

"A likely story!" said the King.

"It's very likely!" said James. "It's like the story in the book!"

"Say what?"

"The King finds a knight with the magical book!"

"You are no knight."

"I know, but everything else is just about the same. If you read it you
would---"

"I have read it!" the King interrupted him, and then said in a softer
tone, "And I know the story you are referring to."

He paused for a moment to take in the full depth of what was before him,
and then said, "So you've read this? Have you read the parts about
zombie children? How it condemns them? How I am supposed to destroy
them?"

"Yes!" said James. "But there is also a zombie child in the book named
James that does good things. I named myself after him." The King
marveled.

"Put away your weapons." he ordered his men. "Don't hurt him."

The guards looked at the prisoner nervously. "Then what should we do
with him?" one of them asked.

"Place him in the dungeons for now." said the King, as he set off down
one of the hallways. "I need to think. Alone."

\*\*\*

The queen stumbled toward her mirror and saw an old woman staring back.
A blurry old woman. Everything was blurry now. How could this be? She
was not *that old*. Where did all of her years go? And yet the back of
her mind pointed out to her that she had never really known what the
rules were.

The queen's thoughts flitted to Adelle.

"It's all your fault!" she screamed.

Somehow, she knew that putting on the crown again would not bring
anything back. This was it. This is who she would be for the rest of her
life. She bent over and began to weep bitterly.

She loathed herself.

\*\*\*

The King stood alone in his throne room, warring with a past he had
thought had been put to rest. He considered his throne, and then sat
beside it. In his hand he held the book of rules. After some time, he
opened the book and began to read. As he read, a man walked up and sat
beside him.

"You didn't hurt the zombie child." said the man. "Why didn't you?"

The King didn't turn to look up. He just continued staring at the book
and said "That boy. I have seen many zombie children, but never one like
that. I can't imagine that he is innocent, and yet he doesn't appear to
be bent on malice either. He actually read the book of rules! What
zombie child would ever do that? And he did not appear to flinch at the
harsh truths it speaks about his kind. I find myself wondering if he
could actually be telling the truth."

"He is. He's one of my orphans, though he doesn't remember it."

"I can't shake the idea that all of this seems so familiar. The boy was
right about one thing; this reminds me so much of the stories in this
book. Though not exactly; the stories in the book were more ideal. But
this is madness! They were just fairytales! Why am I even worrying about
them! I am so confused! Nothing makes sense anymore! I feel like
everything is slipping away from me. My queen, my daughter, my kingdom,
everything!"

"It is slipping away because of what you've become."

"What do you mean? It's the world around me that has changed, not I."

"No. There was once a time when you were a different sort of man. You
were strong and stood for what was right even when the people were
against it. And they followed you despite themselves because I showed
you favor for upholding my book and rules."

"That's strange," said the King. "You are right; I completely forgot
that there was such a time. It feels so long ago, as though it was
someone else's life."

"In a way it was."

The King reflected on his past and he smiled briefly. "Those were good
days, weren't they! Whatever happened to them?"

"You probably don't even remember, but you were once in love with a
young woman who lived in one of the neighboring towns. She wasn't
particularly handsome. She wasn't educated nor was she of noble birth,
but she was honest and kindhearted and fiercely loyal, things you rarely
experience in the claustrophobic world of politics you grew up in, and
you found those attributes attractive. Many rich and powerful people
tried to dissuade you from any interest in her, but they never
succeeded. The rules did not forbid such a union and you were determined
to marry her. But then someone new entered the scene. Someone who was
beautiful and clever and of royal blood. A person everyone fell in love
with, including you. I think you knew she was danger, but that didn't
stop you."

"You're referring to my wife. I admit, she has led me down paths I never
thought I would tread. I should have been stronger."

"She was able to lead you where you are because she had your heart.
There was a time, long before you ever met her, when she wasn't all that
different from the peasant woman that once caught your eye. She was
ignorant of avarice and manipulation, and she loved my stories. But then
she turned away from them and me. Once you were joined, it was only a
matter of time before you turned your back on them as well. If I were to
counsel you---which I already did through my book---I would have told
you not to marry her."

"But I love her! She's my wife! I would gladly give my life for her!"

"And those are all good things. In the grand scheme of things you were
meant to marry her. It is part of the story. But that is something you
will never fully understand in this life. Suffice to say that in the
end, Good will triumph over Evil, as it does in all good stories."

The King paused, deep in thought. "Everything the raven said in the
courtroom; it's true, isn't it?"

"Yes." said the man.

The King continued to look at Marloth. "Now that I have the book, is
there anything I can do to right the wrongs I have made? To help Good
triumph over Evil?"

The man did not immediately reply, and when he did his voice sounded
pained. "Everything will be made right," he said at last. "But you will
still need to reap the consequences of your actions."

The King sighed. "I understand." And then he rose to his feet and set
out toward the door saying, "There is one thing I can do."

\*\*\*

James was growing agitated. He had a growing apprehension that terrible
things were about to happen and there was nothing he could do about it
from within this prison cell. He hated prison cells. Elusive memories
began to surface of being in such a place before. Memories that made his
lifeless skin crawl.

But the strangest thing was the looking glass on the wall. Why in the
world would anyone put a mirror in such a place? For a moment he forgot
about his anxiety and reflected on the stories he had read of people
stepping through looking glasses into alternate realities.

Suddenly there was a clattering outside and the door to his cell was
pulled open. The King stood in the doorway and beckoned to him.

"Come out! You're free!"

James warily stepped outside of the cell. The King and several guards
were standing around him.

"What happened?" James asked. "Why are you letting me go?"

"Because I trust you. And because I want you to do something for me."

James had anticipated many different possibilities, but this was not one
of them. He did not know what to say. The King could see the confusion
in James' face and tried his best to explain.

"The time for the queen and I has come. There is no longer any hope for
us, at least not in this world. But there is still hope for Adelle. She
is still innocent. I have tried so hard to keep her from the taint of
this world. But I can't do that any longer."

The King looked straight into James' eyes.

"Will you protect her? Protect my little girl?"

James froze. Now he *really* didn't know what to say. He already felt
willing to give his life for Adelle, but he was overwhelmed by the
intensity and weight of the King's manner. James didn't like making
promises, and he didn't know how something as tainted as him could keep
anyone from evil. But he couldn't say no. He had to do what he could.

"Yes." he said at last. "I'll protect her."

"And I don't mean any casual attempt," the King went on. "I mean giving
everything you have to keep them from her."

"I'll give my life, not that it's worth much."

The King smiled. "Thank you!" he said, and then engulfed James in a
massive bear hug. "It's been so long since I have come across anyone who
valued this book. I wish we could sit down around a pint of beer and
talk of its stories, but we have no time. We need to hurry to the front
of the castle. He motioned for his guards to follow him.

"We're all pawns in this game of life." said the King. "There's no going
back. But we can move forward."

\*\*\*

Few souls know how to get there, but if you were to travel past the
bleeding edge of technology and make a U-turn at morality, you would
find yourself standing before the arcane laboratory of Dr. Otto
Marrechian.

Rumor had it that the doctor had once been a prominent figure in
society, but whether or not such rumors were accurate, now he spent most
of his time within his sanctum of science, forgotten by much of the
world.

He was an inventor. He did not use most of his inventions, or at least
not directly. Mostly his inventions used his inventions. He wasn't even
sure what most of his creations were doing. That wasn't his concern.
They did what they were designed to do, and usually a lot more. If
things ever got really ugly he would just create a new invention to
clean up the mess.

One of his latest obsessions was the idea of teleportation.
Teleportation was very easy in Marloth since its spacial reality was
already so inconsistent. The hard part was consistency, especially when
it came to destinations. He was trying to refine a teleportation system
that would allow a large group of people to move from point A to point
M. So far, the closest he had gotten was a mechanism that transported a
large group of people randomly along points K, L, M, N, O, etc. This
wasn't very useful at first, but his latest version had been able to
narrow the range of these random destinations to a more reasonable
distance. The subjects would still appear within a mile radius and need
to be rounded up, but that was a lot better than the first version where
they could end up anywhere in Marloth.  Most of those subjects have yet to
be found.

At the moment, these latest teleportation devices were being used to
ferry a large quantity of creations past a host of soldiers and into a
region not far from an equally large fortress.

\*\*\*

The captain of the castle guard lit a cigar, drew in deeply, and slowly
exhaled. With one waft he painted the air with a tapestry of ashen
strokes that idly danced for his amusement. Life was good. He was in
possession of a job that required next to no effort, and he had just
requisitioned a practically endless supply of tobacco in the name of the
King. He leaned back in his chair and watched the smoke wreath up to the
ceiling.

"Captain! Captain!"

The captain groaned. Why of all people did that fool have to come
bothering him? He ought to be bothering the King instead.

"Go away!" he growled, not looking at the gatekeeper who lurched into
the room.

"But this is urgent! Someone is outside the gate and wants in!"

"Then tell them to go away too! You know the policy. That gate is just
for appearances. We never open it for anyone. Especially at night. I
wouldn't even open it if the King was out there." The captain smiled
pleasantly.

"But sir, it's a child!"

The captain looked up in surprise. "What in blazes is a child doing out
there? It's dangerous as hell!"

"That's what I said! The sun is setting, and we can't leave a child out
there all alone in the dark!"

The captain rose to his feet and headed for the door. "Fine. I'm coming.
But if you're wrong about this, I'm gonna kill you."

"Yes, sir!"

The two of them climbed down the stairs to the top of the gate room. The
captain grabbed a lantern and leaned out one of the windows to peer
downward. Sure enough, a little girl was standing below them, staring at
the massive gates.

"Why, the girl's all beat up! She's bleeding!" said the captain.

"Is she?" said the gatekeeper. "It's hard to tell in this light."

"Well don't just stand there! Get these gates opened and let her in!"

"As good as done, sir!"

The gatekeeper quickly ran off and gathered together a group of guards.
After much effort with the levers and pulleys, the portcullis was lifted
and the doors pushed open.

The captain stood at the entrance and ushered the little girl inside.
She was very pale and her body was covered in cuts and sutures. Yet
despite her condition, the girl smiled eagerly and skipped into the
castle. Immediately, the gates slammed shut behind her.

"Terribly sorry for the delay, miss. How bad is the pain?" the captain
asked.

The girl shrugged vaguely and looked about her at the various guards. It
was then that the captain noticed that she was rather round about the
waist. That was odd. She had looked much thinner from outside.

"Perhaps she doesn't speak." said the gatekeeper.

The captain didn't reply. He had continued to examine the girl, and now
he was convinced that she was expanding. The child was swelling up like
a balloon. He needed some answers, and he needed them now.

"What's going on here?" he demanded. The girl had her back turned to him
and did not respond. "Where are your parents?" he shouted. "Are you an
orphan?"

Suddenly, the child turned around and smiled right at him. "I'm not an
orphan! I'm a bomb!"

\*\*\*

The King turned in horror. With a deafening boom, the castle shook so
violently he was thrown clear off his feet. Raising himself to a window,
he was just in time to watch as the gates were enveloped in a towering
ball of smoke and flame.

"What happened?" shouted one of the guards.

The King gritted his teeth. "The gates have been blown wide open."

"What! How?"

"Clearly someone wants inside." the King muttered, and then turned to
James "Don't worry about the castle. Find my little girl. And if you
remember, tell her I love her."

Then the King called for his sword. His sword bearers had been following
closely behind him, and the fearsome weapon was promptly handed to him.
It was a massive sword. Few men were strong enough to carry it, much
less wield it. The King did so through muscle and momentum.

"To the gates, men!" he bellowed, leading the charge down the hall. As
he gathered speed it was impossible to tell if he was wielding his sword
or riding it.

\*\*\*

"I think your mother is in need of a spanking!" said Mrs. Gingersmile.

"Now Mrs. Gingersmile! You know you shouldn't say such things!" Adelle
scolded the doll, though she couldn't help smiling. "My mother had a
very troubled youth; that's all."

"Well, it's not right for her to keep you cooped up in here." said Miss
Perrywinkle.

"It's not that bad." said Adelle. "Why, I'm having a splendid time in
your company!"

"All the same ... " said Mrs. Gingersmile.

"Now, now! Why dwell upon the negative?" said the stuffed animal swan.
"You should try one of these crumpets, they are sensational! Tell me
Samantha, how did you manage to make them so light and fluffy?"

"Oh, it's no trick really. I just added this white powder instead of
flowers."

Adelle leaned back in her chair, closed her eyes, and smiled. She
enjoyed playing with her dolls. They were her only friends. As she sat
there, thinking of nothing in particular, it began to dawn upon her. She
frequently talked for her dolls. She had different personalities for all
of them and would pretend that they were alive and talking on their own.
But now she had her eyes closed. She wasn't thinking about what the
dolls should say. Her mind had drifted onto other things.

The dolls were still talking.

Adelle jumped up and looked about her. She was no longer pretending. The
dolls really were sitting there drinking tea, carrying on a lively
conversation.

"You're alive!" she exclaimed.

"Of course, dear!" said Mrs. Gingersmile. "Why ever shouldn't we be?
You've been talking to us all this time."

"But, but, you're just dolls! You never talked by yourselves before!"

"Silly girl!" said the swan. "Here, why don't you have another crumpet?
Oh, forgive me, it appears we've eaten them all!"

Adelle looked at the empty basket. "*Dolls can't eat!*" she moaned.

"Don't worry about that." Samantha told the swan. "I'll go down to the
kitchens and make some more!"

"Why don't we all go?" suggested Miss Perrywinkle.

"That's a splendid idea!" said Mrs. Gingersmile. The dolls hopped down
from their chairs and hobbled over to the door.

"Are you coming?" Mrs. Gingersmile called back to Adelle.

"No, I'm all mixed up right now and---" Adelle jumped to her feet.
"What! You can't leave! If someone saw you, who knows what trouble I'd
be in!"

"Now dear, we appreciate your concern, but there's nothing an honest
explanation and good old fashioned reason can't sort out. This is a
royal castle, and occupied by only the most civil of persons!"

With that, the dolls stepped out into the hallway. Adelle tried to think
for a moment, gave up, and ran after them.

\*\*\*

There were no gates. But there were zombies. Hundreds of them rushed
through the hole, slashing and bludgeoning anyone in their path. By the
time the King and his entourage arrived, the majority of the castle
guards had already been pushed back into the center of the castle. The
zombies broke off into groups that began fanning out throughout the
castle, searching for anything alive.

The King charged into the midst of the zombies, swinging his broadsword
like a giant, cleaving zombies in half by the dozens. No one knew how to
slay zombies like the King of Marloth. But there were too many of them.
They climbed up the columns and dropped on him like flies. It was only a
matter of time before the deluge engulfed him. A million knives were fed
upon royalty. The King was dead.

\*\*\*

The queen found herself laughing uncontrollably. The Jillybons were
having their effect. But then she started careening between laughter and
crying. Her misery was too great to be masked by enchanted candy. She
was hysterical. She had no concern with sadness or old age or the sounds
of carnage coming from the lower parts of the castle.

Eventually both laughter and crying abated. The queen sat for some time
in a motionless stupor. Something resembling peace slowly crept over
her.

Suddenly everything was clear. The queen arose. She knew what she had to
do. Trying to maintain as noble a gait as possible, she stumbled across
the room and out onto the balcony. The moon was out. It was a very
beautiful night. Hers was a very tall tower, and from it she could have
seen the whole castle stretched out below her and bathed in moonlight,
cradled in a sea of clouds and stars. But she didn't really notice that.
She didn't notice the screams of the dying or the flames that were
lazily spreading across parts of the castle. She was numb to all of it.
Peacefully, she walked up to the edge of the balcony.

And kept on walking.

\*\*\*

Things were happening far too quickly for James. He needed room to
think. Jogging to the nearest window, he climbed out and onto the roof.
He felt at home on the rooftops. From there, he could see all of the
towers rising around him, the garden sprawled out in the moonlight
below, and the lights hurriedly passing throughout the halls. He didn't
know exactly what was going on, but whatever it was, it was big, and it
probably involved zombie children. James sat down and began to
frantically scan through his book.

He was not there long when the raven flew out of the night and dropped
down beside him.

"It's happening!" said the raven. "Fate is finally dishing out the king
his sentence. All of your siblings are here to pay the dear soul a
visit! And that's not all. Practically the whole of Marloth is
converging upon this place! People are coming from the City of Orphans
and everywhere! There's even been talk of the toymaker himself coming
this way!"

"But they aren't here for the King. They're here for the princess."

"Yes, but if it wasn't for the king they'd---wait a minute! How would
you know that?"

"It's all in my book."

"And what book is that?"

"A book I found. It's a collection of fairytales."

"Well that makes sense. I ought to have realized you were getting all of
your wisdom from a fairytale book."

"It has the same story as what's happening right now, even though a lot
of things are different. The castle, the King and queen, the forces of
evil, it's all there. All that's missing here is a hero. But there's no
knight; only me."

James frowned with determination and set off for the edge of the roof.

"Where are you going?" asked the raven.

"To rescue Adelle."

"Have the maggots gotten to your brains?" shrieked the raven. "You can't
go back there! If the zombies don't destroy you, the toymaker will!"

James turned around and stared the raven straight in the eye.

"Look at me!" he shouted. "I'm nothing! I'm not even alive! The more my
memory comes back, the more I realize how much I threw away! I have
nothing to gain; I have nothing to lose. But down there is a little girl
with everything to gain, and everything to lose. She's sweet and
beautiful and innocent! Yet they want to take that away from her!
They're going to make her like me, or something even worse! I can't let
that happen."

"You're on the verge of making sense. But there's nothing you can do
about any of this. Events have been set in motion that cannot be
changed. Trust me, I know about such things."

James continued toward the roof edge and shouted over his shoulder, "But
do such things know about me?"

\*\*\*

"I wonder where everyone is?" said Adelle.

"It sounds like there's quite a commotion coming from downstairs," said
Samantha. "Let's hurry so we can see what it is!"

It wasn't long before the group reached the bottom of the spiral
staircase and stepped into the room at the base of the tower. There,
stretching across the arched opening into one of the halls of the castle
was a steel door.

"What? I didn't know there was a door here!" said Adelle.

"It looks like it descended from the ceiling." observed the swan.
Several of the dolls tried to lift it, but it didn't budge.

"We might as well try moving one of the walls!" said Miss Perrywinkle.

"And the shouting is coming from the other side! It sounds like a war!"

"Oh, I do wish we could see what was going on!"

"Forget about wars. However are we to make more crumpets if we can't get
to the kitchens?"

The more Adelle listened, the worse the sounds from outside became.
There were screams of pain, and the sounds of weapons and flesh and
nasty things she didn't know about and didn't want to.

"I'm going back upstairs!" she exclaimed. "I can't stay here another
moment!"

"No you are not!" Mrs. Gingersmile scolded. "By the sound of it, things
could be getting pretty dangerous around here! You need to stay with us
so we can protect you!"

"Oh, shut up! You're just a bunch of dolls!"

"Watch your tongue, young lady! That's no way for a princess to speak!"

"I can speak as I like! You're not my mother!"

"And I consider that a blessing!"

Adelle was infuriated. It sounded as though dreadful things were taking
place within the castle, and she was not accustomed to being talked back
to by her dolls. As she stormed up the stairs, the dolls were preparing
to light a fire with a lantern and burn their way through the wall.

\*\*\*

From behind the flood of zombies came Deadwick the goblin, furtively
eyeing the chaos with growing enthusiasm. He had his new gun at the
ready. Its barrel was so large it shot rounds the size of his fist!  He
was a little peeved that the children were so efficient in killing
everyone; so far he had no opportunity to use it. But he wasn't too
worried; war had a way of beating on his door.

"Master!" said one of the zombie children. "Ogres have tunneled under
the castle and are coming out of the cellars!"

Deadwick nodded. "Tell the other children not to fight them. Simply stay
out of their way. The brutes are so slow, we'll be done with our chores
and away before they cause much trouble. Any news of the princess?"

"No one has seen her yet." said the child. "But there is an entire tower
that is blocked off by a heavy door."

"Yes, she could very well be behind it. Go get more explosives and see
if you can't rid us of that door."

\*\*\*

James entered the kitchen and looked about him. He needed weapons, and
this was the place to find them.

"This is madness!" cried the raven. "I'm beginning to sense dark forces
accumulating about the castle! I may be immune to ordinary death, but
there are supernatural powers in this world that even I have reason to
fear!"

"Then hurry up and get away from here!" James said as he began opening
cupboards and dumping shelves onto the floor. Near the middle of the
shelves he found what he was looking for: row after row of knives.

"I'm no longer proud of it," said James, "but I have had an eternity of
experience with such devices." He grabbed one, sheathed it, and screamed
in agony.

"What's the matter?" said the Raven. "I thought you'd had an eternity of
experience with such devices?"

James tore out the knife and clung to a table for support. "I used to
just stick these through my waist and use my insides as a sheath," he
gasped, "but ever since I found that book I've become increasingly aware
of pain. Now I've reached the point where I must be as sensitive to pain
as a real person would!" He looked at the knife in bewilderment. "I'll
have to figure out some new means of carrying these things!" And then,
as if the full weight of his situation was just then dawning on him, he
added slowly, (and you could hear the tears in his voice), "This is
going to hurt... "

"Well, I assume you are at least one of the more capable of the
children, and can outmaneuver the lot of them?"

"I am neither as fast nor strong as my siblings." said James as he began
tearing strips out of old sacks and using them to tie knives to various
parts of his person. "My only hope is that what this book of Marloth
says is true."

"So if it is, you will defy impossible odds and miraculously defeat an
entire army?"

"No. I will be soundly beaten. But that will not be the end of it. In
the end the princess will be saved." He pulled forth a stout broom and,
with one forceful lunge, broke the feathered end across his knee. Then
he threw the beam over his shoulder and strapped it to his back with a
belt.

"And what about you?" asked the raven.

James gave a weak smile. "I don't know if there's any hope for me."

"Then why are you doing this?"

"For many reasons." said James as he headed for the door. "Everything is
pointing to the same thing: this is what I am supposed to do."

\*\*\*

Adelle was becoming agitated. It was growing late and the toymaker still
hadn't arrived. To make matters worse, there had never been a time when
she wished to leave this place more. The screams were growing less
frequent, but there was still a great commotion coming from all
directions of the castle, as though the walls were crawling with rats.
She had no idea how long she had been sitting patiently in her room, but
it felt like ages.

As she listened, she noticed that a new sound was growing amidst the
others. It was a low hum. Gradually the sound became louder, until it
sounded like a thundering motor. Something was moving toward the castle,
and by the increase in volume, it was approaching at a frightening
speed.

Suddenly, the window exploded inward with a shower of glass. Pieces of
the surrounding rock and wood were blown across the room, tearing holes
into the adjacent wall. Yet despite all of this, Adelle was not touched.
In fact, she was not nearly as shocked as she knew she should be.

The debris settled to reveal a solid black coach resting in the middle
of the room. It was sleek and constructed of pure metal. Even the wheels
were metal, like that of a train. At the back of it was strapped a huge
rocket engine from which smoke was still billowing. At the top and
toward the front of the contraption was a bench upon which sat a monkey,
who was apparently driving the thing.

A door along the side of the vehicle swung open and out stepped Jakob
Damond.

"Greetings, fair princess!" said the toymaker, removing his hat and
bowing. "A thousand apologies for being late. You would not believe what
we had to go through to get here!"

"What a bizarre device!" said Adelle. "It looks dreadfully dangerous."

"Oh, not to worry! You and I will be safe inside. But tell me, how are
you enjoying your dolls?"

"So it was you behind my dolls coming alive!"

"Naturally. That's what I'm best at. Making things come to life."

"Well to be honest, they haven't behaved themselves at all."

"Of course not! Do you want them to just sit all day and speak when
spoken too? What would be the fun in that? No, people need foibles to be
truly alive. Now, if you don't mind, we need to hurry! I've already kept
us too late!"

"Yes, by all means! I think the castle is under siege or some such!"

"Well then that makes it all the more urgent that we get you away from
here!" said the toymaker as he motioned for her to step inside.

"Is there no other means of transportation?" she asked nervously.

"Trust me, it's just like floating. You won't even notice whether or not
it's moving!"

Adelle had barely stepped inside when the bedroom door was pummeled to
the ground by a rush of zombies that quickly flooded the room. The
toymaker slammed the door behind Adelle just as Deadwick waded through
the mass of zombies and stopped before the machine. Both the monkey and
the toymaker looked at him with dull interest.

"Hey!" said the goblin. "Where do you think you're going?"

"Excuse me?" said the toymaker. "The princess and I were just going for
a short jaunt. Is there a problem?"

"Ha! You think this is funny, do you? Who do you think you are, trying
to stand in front of me and my army?"

"What's happening?" Adelle called out as she tried to see through the
small windows of the coach.

"Oh, I'm no one in particular," said the toymaker. "I just promised this
fine young woman a midnight drive through Marloth, and have come as good
as my word. But who are all of these fine young children? I just so
happen to have a few toys that I've been meaning to give to such sweet
children as you!"

The zombie children clapped their hands in excitement. Reaching into a
large burlap sack in the back of the vehicle, he pulled forth several
toys and proceeded to hand them out to the closest zombie children.

"You must be mad!" said Deadwick. "Don't you realize that me and my army
of the undead have just overcome and slaughtered every inhabitant of
this castle except the princess?"

"Well I'm sorry to hear that. This always was such a cheery place! But I
haven't the time to dwell on such things. I'm on a tight schedule and
should have already departed a quarter hour ago!"

"You'll depart right now!" Deadwick bellowed. "KILL HIM!"

But the zombie children were far too busy fighting over the toys. One
group was struggling over a toy fire truck when it suddenly made a noise
like a siren. The children were so surprised they dropped it on the
floor. As they all watched, the fire truck awkwardly lifted its ladder
into the air until it halted nearly two feet from the floor. On top of
the ladder clung a motionless toy fireman who was holding a shiny hose.
Suddenly, it shot out a jet of blue-white flame into the room,
completely engulfing several zombies. At the same time the other toys
began to also do unpleasant things. A jump rope attempted to strangle
several zombies while the teddy bear started feeling sick and vomiting
glowing green acid.

Suddenly, there was a crash of glass as a shadowy figure dropped down
from the upper window and landed right between the two men. For a brief
instant, both of the grown-ups stared in surprise at the small,
unimposing figure of James. Then, before either of them could react, he
whipped out his staff and with one circular blow knocked both of them
off their feet.

"KILL HIM TOO!" shouted Deadwick. Fresh zombies materialized from every
nook and cranny, all converging upon the machine. Quickly, James leaped
onto the coach and alongside the monkey. The monkey was preparing to
bring the contraption around but was interrupted when James slammed his
staff into the controls. The two of them barely had enough time to duck
before the vehicle lurched forward at a gut wrenching velocity and
exploded through the facing wall like a cannon ball.

The monkey turned the vehicle sharply along the hall and barreled down
the winding stairway. He tried to shut it off but James had broken the
lever that controlled the speed. The machine was at full throttle.

The contraption crashed through the outer wall of the tower and flew
into the midnight air. For a brief moment, time seemed to stand still.
The moon outlined the machine as it flew through the sky, the wind
whistling past their ears. Then, it crossed over the courtyard and, with
a collision that nearly shook the entire building, it crashed into the
midst of the castle below. Bricks and mortar showered the sky. The
machine bore straight through the roof and continued on down a corridor.

And so they bore onward, shredding stone from steps and walls like a
wave of water, all the while accompanied by Adelle's screams from
inside.

Through all of this, James had barely been able to keep his grip on the
top of the machine and was hanging on by his fingers. The monkey didn't
fail to notice this. Reaching back, he pried James' hands loose. Before
James could grab a new grip, the monkey made a sharp turn and threw
James straight into a pillar.

After falling to the ground and lying there for a few moments, James
rose to his feet and watched as the machine disappeared into the
labyrinth of corridors.

For a brief moment, all was quiet. But it wasn't long before a noise
began to rise from the distant outskirts of the castle. He heard them
long before he saw them. Scurrying, creeping, climbing, and running. It
sounded as though every zombie child in the castle was converging upon
the spot he now occupied.

They were. From all directions, zombies jumped into view and rushed him.
But just before the swarm could smother him, he slipped through the
railing of the balcony beside him. This was only possible due to the
fact that several of his bones were broken and he was only partially
relying upon them for animation, thus making him triple jointed and
flexible as a sack. He fell two stories down and hit the floor rolling,
possibly breaking more bones, but still managing to leap to his feet and
break into a run. From far above a cascade of zombies followed suit,
crashing upon the spot where he had landed and continuing pursuit along
the ballroom floor.

James was determined to catch up with that monkey. But by now his limbs
were broken in several places and he was not able to move as quickly as
before. He still had a rhythm to his movement, but now it was a heavily
syncopated one. And he didn't know where the monkey and that bizarre
machine were. What he needed was a good vantage point. Turning a corner,
he entered a long hall and nearly ran straight into another group of
zombies. Screeching to a halt, he threw himself against the wall and
proceeded to scale it. It was a rough stone wall, and he was able to
shoot up it almost as fast as he could run. The top of the wall was
lined with stained glass windows. One of these he shattered with his
staff and climbed outside. After crawling up several more stories
outside, he reached the roof and once again commanded a view of the
whole castle.

Even though he could not see the toymaker's machine, he didn't need to.
It wasn't hard to pinpoint its location from the rumbling of its motors
and the sounds it created as it bore through walls, furniture, and an
occasional zombie. Based upon the ruckus, he estimated that it was
heading for the main keep, the largest and second tallest building of
the castle. The moment James ascertained its location he rushed onward,
for he could already hear his fellow children climbing up the wall in
pursuit. Leaping onto an adjacent rooftop, he dropped through an open
window and back into the castle. After several turns, he found himself
somewhere in the middle of the keep. He could hear the machine two
stories above him. Climbing several flights of stairs, he reached a long
hall, made a right, and found himself in the massive throne room. At the
other end of the room, right beside the throne was the machine, finally
halted. The monkey was busily fiddling with its engine.

Adelle threw open the door of the coach and fell out onto the ground in
a dizzy heap.

"That was the worst experience of my life!" she moaned.

James could hear the zombie children approaching in the distance. He had
to get her out of there. The monkey also heard the commotion. He tried
feverishly to get the machine going again, but was only met by the
complaining of sputtering gears.

"James!" Adelle called out in surprise. "What's happening?"

James quickly rushed over to her and helped her to her feet. "We've got
to get out of here!" he said. "An army has taken over the castle!"

"That can't be!" said Adelle. "The castle is invincible!"

"That's not the half of it. The toymaker you were going to meet, he's
evil! He can only mean you harm!"

"How can you say such things? Mr. Damond is a very good man. He would
never hurt a soul!"

"That is perfectly correct." said Jakob Damond.

Both of the children turned in surprise. The toymaker was standing
beside them. Taking off his hat, he gave each of them a cordial bow.

"Forgive me for all of these mishaps," said the toymaker. "But I'm
afraid there are some rather unpleasant characters afoot. It appears
that the castle has been infested by a legion of zombie children."

"Zombies?" said Adelle. "You mean dead people who get up and walk
around? My mother told me stories of such creatures! She said they
stumbled about and slobbered all the time and that if I wasn't good they
would come and eat my brains!"

"Well then all the more reason to get you out of here!" James shouted,
grabbing her hand.

But the toymaker had been eyeing James suspiciously.

"Wait a minute, you're no ordinary boy!" he said.

"Come on!" said James to Adelle. "We've got to get away!"

"What are you talking about?" Adelle demanded, trying to pull James
back.

"You've got to listen to me!" Jakob Damond shouted. "That's no boy! It's
a zombie!"

Adelle stopped and looked at James. James looked back, a tinge of fear
flickering across his face. In the background, the machine suddenly
sputtered to life. Encouraged, the monkey took hold of one of the knives
James had dropped and began to sneak around the group.

"But that's ridiculous!" said Adelle. "He's not a zombie! He's too smart
and nice!"

"And deceitful! I don't know what his game is, but I'm telling you the
truth. I know a zombie when I see one, and that there is a zombie!"

Suddenly, the monkey rushed toward them from behind, brandishing the
knife. Before James could react, the monkey lunged at him and sunk the
blade deep into his back. It passed clean through and burst out of the
boy's chest. Adelle cupped her mouth and screamed.

For a brief moment, James stood there, stunned. But then all of his
senses snapped together with a rush. He spun around with lightning speed
and hit the monkey with such force that it flew across the room. The
monkey managed to catch onto a chandelier in mid air and drop to the
ground, only slightly dazed.

James turned back to look at the toymaker and Adelle. It wasn't until
then that it dawned upon him. The knife was still lodged inside of him,
the blade protruding from his chest. Adelle was so shocked and horrified
she had fallen to her knees. Suddenly he felt unclean. Contorting his
hand behind his back, he ripped out the knife and threw it from him.

"Look at the creature!" said Jakob Damond. "He isn't hurt at all! And
why? Because he isn't alive! He's a rotting corpse!"

Adelle burst into sobs. James could see the fear in her eyes. Fear of
him. James cringed with self-loathing. He wished he could die. To die
right then and be gone from there. But he wasn't allowed even that
luxury.

It was then that the others arrived. Smashing doors and shattering
windows, they flooded into the room from all angles. The monkey brought
the machine sharply around and headed straight for the middle of the
room. He pressed a button and the front of the contraption opened like a
mouth. Before James could react, the contraption scooped Adelle off of
the ground and once again swallowed her inside the coach. By then the
zombie children had already reached the center of the room and were
swarming around it. James vaulted into the air and grabbed onto the
rafters. Several of the others followed after him.

As for the toymaker, he casually passed through the crowd without a care
in the world. They seemed to be unconsciously avoiding him like a
boulder in the midst of a foaming river. He strolled out of the room,
heading upstairs.

The machine made several circles, flattening a weaving path of squished
zombie children. At the same time, James had been tackled by several of
the children and the lot of them fell from the rafters in a giant tangle
of writhing bodies. They landed squarely on top of the machine as it
maneuvered through the crowd. The monkey tried to fend them off, but was
overwhelmed. He lost control of the craft and before he could stop it,
one of the children had kicked the accelerator lever and the machine's
rockets were sent into full throttle. The machine was launched toward
the far wall and exploded through it. With a shower of bricks, the group
of zombie children who had been on top of the machine found themselves
hurtling into the twilight sky. An endless abyss of nothingness
stretched out before them. The monkey had likewise been thrown from his
perch and was floating some distance ahead. James twisted about in
midair just in time to watch as the machine rocketed into the horizon,
quickly lost in the misty haze. Gradually, their horizontal velocity
dissipated. With shrieks and screams, they began to fall, hurtling into
the inky darkness below.

\*\*\*

The toymaker climbed out onto the roof of the tallest tower and looked
out over the misty expanse surrounding the now burning castle. Smiling
to himself, he began to whistle a happy little tune.

"Who the (many colorful expletives) are you?" Deadwick screamed,
climbing after him. "You've ruined absolutely everything! My boss is
going to have you melted into goo when I tell him how you've meddled
with our plans!"

"What's that?" said Jakob Damond, spotting the goblin as it stumbled
beside him. "Silly fellow, I've ruined nothing."

"The princess has escaped, I've lost who knows how many kids, and some
of them are even fighting me! I bet that's your doing!"

"My, it's a beautiful night." said the toymaker, looking out over the
moonlit cloudscape. "I do so love this world."

"And there goes your monkey. I can see him falling into the abyss with a
bunch of my kids."

"He can take care of himself."

"Arggh! If you don't quit with that mindless optimism, I'll tear that
smile off you face and make you eat it!"

"You need to calm down, good fellow. All the things you've been scheming
will work out in due time."

"Due time just came and went, you idiot! It's all over now!"

"On the
contrary," said the toymaker, as he straightened his hat and turned to
leave. "It's only just begun."