# Part 3

Nighttime. It was very dark. The moon and stars were shrouded in cloud,
and the city had few streetlamps. But there were several lights moving
about the orphanage, both inside and out. These were the lamps of men;
men searching the orphanage grounds.

"I found someone!" a voice called out from the yard at the side of the
house. The voice was answered by other voices, and before long the
lights drew toward the side yard. There, lying on the ground, was a boy.
He was unconscious. His body was covered in scrapes and bruises, and
limbs were arranged at slightly unnatural angles. From the dew on his
skin, he must have been there for some time.

A man stepped to the front of the group. It was Doctor Hurley. "It's
James!" he said. "He's one of the orphans!" He kneeled beside the boy
and began to examine him critically.

"He is badly injured." said the doctor. "We need a stretcher."

As two of the men set out to procure a stretcher, the doctor noticed
something lying on the ground beside the boy. It was a book. Without
anyone noticing, the doctor took the object and tucked it into his coat.

A stretcher was soon brought forward. Before long, James was being carried
out of the yard and onto the street. In the middle of the street was a
carriage with two men standing beside it. The stretcher, Doctor Hurley,
and one other man somehow were squeezed into the carriage. As the
carriage set off, James was jostled about in the stretcher, causing him
to moan and thrash about. He cried out something about a princess being
in danger.

"Don't worry about a thing." said the doctor to James. "We're taking you
to a place where you can leave all of the pain and confusion behind."

* * *

Deep within the farthest reaches of the most devious of minds, there was
a room. It was a narrow, dingy room with a tall ceiling. Its only source
of light was a small upper window through which a narrow beam of light
managed to trickle. Within this room there was a little boy. He was just
waking up from a long, dark dream.

He groggily opened his eyes; he was having a hard time detaching his
mind and body from sleep. After a time, he forced himself up with his
elbows so that his head was just raised enough to look around. The room
was relatively empty aside for a sink and toilet near the bed. There
was also a mirror across the room in which he could see a bewildered
little boy staring back at him. In the distance, he could hear what
sounded like muffled moans and an occasional scream. There were many
people around him, just beyond the walls. Tormented people. But he only
half heard and half saw any of this. For the most part, his mind was
clouded by fading dreams, both good and ill, but mostly ill. As he
looked about the room, he had a growing apprehension that he ought to be
very scared, and that even though he currently was not scared in the
slightest, it was only a matter of time before the fear caught
up to him in full. He was in a foreboding place, with foreboding
memories clinging to him. The sort of memories people try to forget.

He clumsily climbed out of bed. He felt as though he hadn't used his
feet in ages. Carefully, he hobbled over to the mirror for a closer
look. It was large enough that it covered most of the wall, and there
were a few cracks running along it diagonally, subtly distorting the
room he saw through it. He raised his hand and waved at the boy. The boy
waved back. He began to hop up and down. The boy likewise, hopped up and
down. The reflection mirrored him yet somehow he felt like the reflection and he weren't quite the
same. For one thing, he just couldn't imagine himself making the sort of
face the other reflection was. It was too ... well ... *wicked*.

Suddenly, the reflection lunged forward. *"BOO!"*

The boy screamed. The scream of a child who has woken up from a
nightmare only to find that it is still the dead of night, and that
morning is a long, long way away. Except in this case, the morning was
more than far off. He knew it would never come. All around him, people
beyond the room joined in with his screams, forming a numbing chorus of
shrieks and wailing that flooded his ears and forced him to the ground.
He could take no more. Now he knew where he was.

The Asylum. He was mad.

The door flew open and a young woman dressed as a nurse rushed into the
room. She took one look at the boy and then put her arms around him,
trying desperately to comfort him. He was shaking so violently he was
near convulsions, and his screams had grown hoarse as though the life
was being ripped out of him by some unseen force. The nurse held him and
wiped the sweat from his brow, whispering to him soothingly. Finally, he
seemed to run out of energy and went limp, nearly passing out in her
arms. Still writhing about weakly, he was carried over to the bed and
carefully laid on his back.

Before long, a man came hurrying through the door and took in the scene
critically. James was not certain, but he thought the man looked
familiar.

"He's awake!" said the man.

The nurse nodded. She backed away toward the wall and the man stepped
over to the bed.

The boy was tossing his head back and forth, his eyes half closed. "Get
me away from here!" he moaned.

"James!" the man said sternly. "It's all right! You're awake!"

The boy looked back at the mirror. The reflection boy smiled and waved
to him, a sinister gleam in his eye. Somehow he had acquired a wicked
looking knife, and was casually holding it in his other hand.

"He's going to kill me!" James screamed.

The nurse turned to look at where James was staring. She didn't see
anything but the cell wall.

"There, there, James," said the man. "We're here with you. Whatever
happens, we will do everything in our power to protect you."

The nurse motioned toward the man and whispered something into his ear.
The man nodded and whispered several words in return. The nurse looked
shocked, and then resigned. She left the room and soon reappeared with a
tray laden with several metal instruments. The doctor took up one of the
objects, a syringe, and then took a small vial from inside his coat
pocket. The vial was filled with a green liquid. The doctor shook it,
and the liquid began to glow, weakly illuminating the room and turning
their faces pale green. Filling the syringe with the vial's contents, he
grabbed hold of James and emptied the syringe into his arm.

The whole room began to become green and hazy. Everything
appeared to be underwater; thick, phosphorescent water. The man and the nurse began
to move slowly and shakily toward the door, as though time was being
rewound and sped up erratically.

"Don't leave me with him!" James moaned.

The man looked back and said something. His voice reverberated in the
distance, so thick with echoes as to make it unintelligible. Before
the door had closed behind them, the green had completely enveloped the
place, and then faded into nothing.

* * *

*Adelle opened her eyes and looked about her. It was so bright she was
nearly blinded. The sun was filling the sky with golden light. She
squinted to the east, where the sun was already setting. Or was it the
moon? The color of the sky kept shifting; she could not tell if it was
morning or evening.*

*She stretched out on her bed and tried to focus on the sky above her.
That was funny---she had never been able to see the sky from her bedroom
before. And what was more, her bedroom had never been so unstable. Her
bed was rocking back and forth.*

*"Ahoy Matey!" shouted Samantha.*

*Adelle sat up in surprise. The dolls were there on her bed! And the bed,
as it turned out, was in the middle of the sea. Suddenly, every muscle
in her body tensed and she clung to the mattress for dear life.*

*"Samantha!" Miss Perrywinkle scolded. "You speak as though you were a
primitive!"*

*"But that's the sort of thing one is supposed to say when one is out at
sea." said Samantha. "I even read it in a book once."*

*"You're making things up again!" said Miss Perrywinkle.*

*"Well if you don't believe me, look at this! The book is right here!"*

*The doll reached over the edge of the bed and pulled a book out of the
water.*

*"Now that's what I call a coincidence!" said Miss Perrywinkle, taking
the book.*

*"Not really." said Samantha. "Probably just about every book must be out
here."*

*And she may have been right. The sea was strewn with hundreds of books,
casually floating along the surface.*

*"What are we doing here?" Adelle said with a strong pitch of urgency.*

*"What do you think?" said Samantha. "We're sailing!"*

*"But where's my bedroom? Where is the castle?"*

*"It's hard to say." said Mrs. Gingersmile, who was baiting a fishing rod
with a candy cane. "I think it exploded."*

*"We're very fortunate really." said Miss Perrywinkle. "It's a miracle
we are all safe."*

*"Safe?" said Adelle. She was staring at the water suspiciously. Or was
it water? The more she looked at the stuff, the less it looked like
water. It was too wispy and rose up and down too much.*

*"Are we in the sea, or are we floating on the clouds?" asked Adelle.*

*"I'll go with both." said Samantha.*

*Adelle gathered her courage and reached her hand into the water. It was
the strangest sensation. It was too thick to be clouds. She cupped her
hands and was able to lift some of it into her bed. Yet it was too light
to be water. Most of the stuff was caught in the breeze and blown from
her hand, and yet even as it was dissipating through the air, it still
caught the sunlight and glittered just as water would.*

*Miss Perrywinkle closed the book and waved it at Samantha. "I can't find
any passage in this book that talks about the sea!"*

*"I'll show you!" said Samantha, taking the book and sitting beside her.*

*"Look, the swan is back!" said Mrs. Gingersmile.*

*As she spoke, the swan glided toward them and landed in the cloud water
beside the bed.*

*"Ah, she's awake!" said the swan. "It was about time. I was beginning to
wonder if she was under a spell."*

*"No spells." said Mrs. Gingersmile. "What did you see? Any sign of
land?"*

*"No. I saw no land. But I did come across a few people here and there."*

*"Anyone interesting?"*

*"All interesting. Downright mad, for the most part. As are most
people outside of the castle."*

*"But we're outside of the castle!"*

*"Ah yes. That is why I said *most* people. We, of course, are the exception."*

*"But that's ridiculous!" said Adelle. "If that were so, then the castle
would be like an asylum turned inside out!"*

*"And it is, dear. Most everyone inside the castle is civilized and sane."*

*"*Most everyone?*" said Miss Perrywinkle. Are you suggesting there are mad people *inside* the castle?"*

*"Only a few. The king is probably mad. They usually are."*

*"Come to think of it, there was that zombie child." said Mrs. Gingersmile.
"He was inside the castle, and he was clearly mad."*

*"What zombie---" Adelle began, but was cut off by Samantha.*

*"Look!" she said. "There's a toad out there!"*

*Sure enough, a toad wearing a tweed jacket and thick glasses was
swimming about the sea of clouds, feverishly collecting the books and
piling them onto a small desk that was likewise floating in the water.
The pile was already several yards tall, and was swaying about
precariously.*

*"A toad! I'm sure he would be fun to converse with!" said Miss
Perrywinkle. "Say, Mr. Toad!" she called out. "Why don't you tarry a bit
and relate to us your business!"*

*The toad looked up for a moment with a slightly startled expression and
then went back to his work, muttering something derogatory about a bed
full of women.*

*"Never mind then." said Miss Perrywinkle. "Clearly he has no manners."*

*"Here it is!" said Samantha, pointing at the open book. "Here's the
passage about the sea! See right here? The doll says 'Ahoy mate!'"*

*Miss Perrywinkle looked at the book. "You're right! She does say 'Ahoy
mate!'"*

*"And see here? She says it again!" said Samantha. "And then another doll
says it on the next line!"*

*"Well." said Miss Perrywinkle. "You're a good deal sharper than I give
you credit for."*

*Adelle leaned over their shoulders and looked at the book curiously. It
looked familiar.*

The clock struck 10 o'clock. The nurse promptly closed the book. Her
break was over and it was time for her to make her rounds among the
patients.

* * *

James groggily opened his eyes as best he could, but his vision was too
dim and blurred to make anything out. He tried to move, but he could
hardly feel the rest of his body. He suspected that he was in a bed. Not
the nicest bed he had slept on, but he was in no condition to care.

That was the strangest thing: he didn't care. He could never recall
being in such a state. He had always been deeply concerned about
*something.* For once, he had no idea where he was, or what was
happening, and he didn't care. Nothing mattered anymore. Was he dead?
Who cared.

He liked it. He felt invincible. For once, no one could mess with him.
No one could hurt him. After all, what could they do to him? Any
vulnerability had been killed. He was finally free from it all.

After a time, possibly minutes, possibly hours, the gloom opened up and
a figure appeared. Some faint talking sounds came from the crack of
light, and then it was engulfed by the darkness and he was left alone
with the new figure.

"Hello, James." The voice echoed hollowly and seemed to come from far
away, even though James was sure that it was coming from the figure
beside him, who looked to be close.

*Hmm. It speaks.* Thought James. *Perhaps it does tricks too.*

"How are you feeling?" asked the voice.

*I suppose it wants me to say something. Stupid figure thing.*

"Do you remember me?" asked the voice.

*No.*

"Do you remember anything?"

*No. Thankfully.*

There was a long pause.

"The drugs are working almost too well."

*Not if I can still see you.*

The figure lowered several feet. Perhaps it had pulled up a chair and
sat down.

"You spoke a good deal in your sleep," it said. "Dreadful, really. I
can't imagine where a boy of your age would have ever acquired such
horrific ideas. Zombie children and the most gruesome acts of violence.
I wish I knew what happened back in that orphanage. Nobody seems to
know."

Orphanage?

"But that's all behind you. Now, I know you and I have had our
differences in the past, but Edward was a good friend, and I feel
responsible to do everything within my power to help you."

James suddenly recognized the figure. It was Doctor Hurley!

"But I have to warn you, it's going to mean giving up a few things that
I know you've clung to in the past. But it will be worth it."

The doctor looked at his watch.

"I wish I could talk to you more, but I need to check on another of my
projects. Before I go, there is one question I would like to ask you.
Has anyone gone out of his way to save your life?"

James thought about that for a moment and then shook his head. Of late
most people had been trying to achieve the opposite.

"Thank you." said the doctor, and then he left James to himself.

* * *

<i>
Somewhere in the swirling mists of Marloth, just at the crest of a
setting sun, there was a bed, floating along the clouds as though it
were on the sea. It was an elegant bed, with golden posts rising from
each corner, and a large headboard across the top on which was engraved
an elaborate depiction of an ocean shore. The bed was lined with
embroidered linens and pillows. In the middle of the bed a little girl
was curled up and sleeping peacefully.

All about the bed were flitting little lights which, if you looked more
closely, would have turned out to be fairies. The fairies were very
excited, and were carrying on a conversation that went something like
this:

"What is it?"

"It is hard to say. Everything looks so similar when asleep."

"I think it must be an angel!"

"Do not be silly! It is a girl!"

"A girl? Like us?"

"No, this is a girl! I know it! I saw a picture of one in a book!"

"You mean she is real? She can actually do things?"

"Yes! She is made from the earth! She is like a woman, but smaller."

"Oh, yes, I remember now! I heard about them! And see that object on her
head? That means she is a princess!"

"How wonderful! This is a day to be remembered!"

And the bed continued on. Presently the fairies began to drop out of
sight. Night was falling, and they were growing sleepy. (Though where
the fairies sleep, only they know.) The shadows thickened. Here and
there through the fog could be caught glimpses of buildings and people,
all of which were staring at the girl curiously before sinking back into
the mist. No longer was she in a world held together by things like
longitude and latitude, but by mere ideas. It was impossible to tell
whether the mist hid land and mass, or if there was nothing behind it at
all. And in a way, it did not really matter; all that mattered was what
could be behind it, for this was not a world of actualities, but of
possibilities.

The bed gradually followed the current under a low bridge that crossed
the mist. As the bed passed underneath, a small carriage paused atop the
bridge and an elegant woman peered down at the boat. She made a comment
to no one in particular, and then motioned for the coachman to continue
on his way.

A few zombie children swam out to the bed, but were eaten by alligators
before they could reach it.</i>

The nurse flipped back several pages and looked at what she had read the
evening before. That was strange, from the best she could tell he had
written two versions of the same scene. She wanted to read more but she
heard the doctor approaching and she was sure he would not be happy if
he found her reading that book. Besides, it was almost time for her
rounds again.

* * *

The tragedy of Life. Everyone, at one point or another, is dropped in
the middle of it. They all try to cope with it one way or another. The
popular choice is denial. Fortunately for these people, there is a whole
world created just for their amusement.

It's affectionately called the Asylum.

Each one of its residents is an individual. Each one of them is special.
Each one of them is a separate reality unto itself. And each one is
equally true. So walking the halls of the Asylum can be likened to
exploring an interdimensional observatory. Not one of these worlds
conflict with each other, because none of them interact with each other.
And all of this is made possible by the wonderful invention of the
prison cell. But only a narrow-minded person indeed would call such a
place a prison. It is an environment where people can freely express
themselves with no negative results. A place where their expressions are
not imprisoned by such outmoded ideas as reality. This expression takes
many forms.

When the nurse entered James' room, he was huddled in the corner,
shouting at the wall.

"Good morning!" she said. James grew quiet and glanced at her warily.
She looked far too young and pretty to be in such a place. "I've brought
you some breakfast." she continued. She set down the tray she was
carrying on the bedside and watched for a moment in the hope that he
would somehow respond.

"It may not be the most nourishing, or even the most tasty, but I'm sure
you're starving."

James looked at the tray. He was starving. His insides felt hollow and
shriveled. Like a machine, he awkwardly walked over to the bed, sat
down, and began to eat.

The nurse sat down beside him on the bed. James just ignored her.

"I remember you," she said.

James looked up at her, puzzled. He did not recall seeing her before. He
returned to his eating.

"You know, when you were here before."

Now he stopped, and did not start again. "Before?"

"Yes. You were so little; I didn't know they put people so young in
here."

"I don't remember."

"Well, it was a long time ago."

"I don't remember anything."

The nurse seemed to look off as though she were seeing beyond the walls
and into a more beautiful world.

"I used to hate working here. This is not the place for the hopeful
cases. This is not the place people come to get better. Many of our
patients are violent, or shout perverse and horrible things to me. We
have patients who are in constant torment, and there is little I can
do for them. And much of what the doctors do, and require me to do, has
greatly troubled my heart. I fear we are more villain than healer. If I
could have left, I would have, but times were hard and I had nowhere to
go. So I stayed, all the while hating my existence. Until the day you
left. That day changed my life."

Then she checked herself and smiled reassuringly at James. "Not to say
that it was *because* you left. On the contrary, I missed you more than
words can express. Everyone here is so hardened. You were different. You
were a little child. You were fragile. Every day you would cry and cry.
Nothing would make you stop except for fitful sleep. They said you had
all sorts of mental disorders, and that it was hopeless. There was
nothing we could do."

James returned to his eating. He wasn't fragile anymore. He had made
sure of that. No one was going to mess with him anymore. He was
invincible.

"Then one day, a man came to the Asylum. He was a tall, kind looking
man. I don't know where he came from, or even on what business he was
allowed into the Asylum, but he must have had some sort of authority,
for my employers told me to take him to your cell and let him talk to
you. I did as I was instructed, and when we arrived in this same room,
you were in that same corner, moaning. When the man saw you, he looked sad, and yet there still
remained a glow to his countenance. Then, he reached into his coat and
pulled out a large, weathered book, and gave it to you.

"I can't begin to express how your eyes came to life and your face
brightened. Then he picked you up in his arms and carried you out of the
place. He may have had the authority to take you. He may not have.
Somehow, I wasn't worried about that. All I had to do was look at that
man's face, and I knew you were in far better hands than anyone could
ever find."

The nurse shook her head. "My recounting doesn't do the scene justice. I
can't even explain why, but I never looked at life the same way since."

She reached over and gave James a gentle hug. James had stopped eating
again, and didn't move at all. The nurse rose to her feet and moved
toward the door. Before she left the room, she turned back to James and
smiled again.

"We could use more men like that in this world." she said, and then
closed the door behind her.

* * *

Somewhere in the City of Orphans there was an open square. In the middle
of the square, there was a bed. In the middle of the bed there was a
little girl, curled up and sleeping peacefully. She was very beautiful,
and there was a crown on her head.

Around the bed were many creatures. Some were human. Some were children.
A few were beasts from myth and legend.

One of the bystanders was a goblin. He motioned for the children to grab
her but none of them acknowledged him. They were too captivated by this
angel who had descended to them from the heavens.

The girl began to stir. The crowd began to disperse. Except for the
goblin. He railed for his children to come back. But they didn't, and
once he was the only bystander remaining, he likewise disappeared into
the labyrinth of streets.

The girl yawned, stretched, and sat up drowsily. After she had rubbed
the sand from her eyes and opened them, she found herself in a sprawling
city. She suddenly felt very self-conscious and pulled the covers more
closely over her. She was in public view, wearing nothing but her
nightgown! After the initial shock passed and her awareness settled on
the square around her, she realized that there was no other person in
sight. She was alone.

At first she was overwhelmed by apprehension, though the longer she sat
there it was slowly replaced by curiosity. There was not much light
where she was, but there was a great deal of light further ahead in the
city. And noise. There was something big and exciting taking place.
Possibly even many big and exciting things all at once.

And that's when it really dawned on her; she was outside the castle! Out
in the real world! She was free! This was her golden opportunity to see
the world---she wasn't about to spend another moment of it sitting in
her bed!

Cautiously, she slipped out of the covers and onto the cobbled surface
of the street. Despite her newfound sense of freedom, she felt
vulnerable with just her nightgown, so she took one of the sheets from the
bed and wrapped it around her. Thus attired, she embarked down one of
the streets.

It was very dark in her part of the city. A full moon cast its beams
through an opening in the clouds overhead, and the street was dotted
with lamplight. But any place beyond the rays of these light sources was
pure black. There were far more shadows hiding about than ordinary
nighttime should be capable of.

Adelle didn't mind. She set off down an avenue and was practically
floating along the cobbled streets. All about her, pleasant music could
be heard being played from who knew where. At first she didn't see any
other people but, as if the City were gradually growing accustomed to
this new princess in its midst, she began to come across more and more
people. People who were laughing and swapping tales and having a grand
time. And children! Many children, every one of them running about and
playing games, though oddly never on the section of street she was on.
It was as if she were walking through a series of tableaux, or a
haunting memory that was only to be witnessed. Part of Adelle wanted to
interact with them, but part of her was also fearful. She felt so out of
place, walking about in her sheet and nightgown. For now she was content
simply being an observer of this new world.

The further she went, the more fantastic the sights became.
Occasionally, two men would draw their swords and have a duel on a
rooftop. Or an ogre would lumber by, towing a cart piled so high with
goods that a person could have stepped atop of it from a second story
window. And then there were the fairies. Throughout the City could be
seen the glowing trails of pixie dust as they flitted about the city,
causing who knows what sort of mischief. Every now and then, one would
fly right up to Adelle's face and look at her curiously. Adelle could
feel the warm yellow light radiating from the tiny creature, and it was
very soothing.

Every now and then Adelle would see a billboard advertising some fancy
new product that everyone ought to buy. Most of them advertised clothes,
especially girls' clothes. It looked like most of the female articles
were modeled by the same person. The model was very beautiful and Adelle
couldn't help feeling a tad bit envious, especially considering her
present wardrobe.

Suddenly Adelle did a double take. It was Ivy! She was the person in the
billboards! Adelle had always thought that Ivy was pretty, but she had
never seen her so glamorously presented.

She was staring at this revelation in amazement when she was suddenly
disoriented by a flash of light so intense she felt like she had just
stared into the sun. Adelle turned dizzily to see a short, greenish
creature. It didn't have any eyes, but it did have razor sharp teeth and
a magical device in its hands. The creature held up the device and there
was another flash.

"What *are* you?" Adelle asked. But the creature didn't hear her. Adelle
didn't know that Query Gremlins can only hear answers to questions.

"So what brings the princess heir of Marloth to the illustrious City of
Orphans?" asked the gremlin, as it again flashed her with its device.
(That was its means of seeing.)

Adelle thought this rather rude, but she didn't want to follow in like
manner, so she took the higher path and replied, "I am here to see and
experience the many wonders of Marloth."

"What do you think of the City of Orphans so far?" This question came
from behind her. Adelle turned to see another Query Gremlin. She opened
her mouth to speak but was interrupted by yet another question, this
time from a gremlin to her left. More and more Query Gremlins were
appearing around her. And more flashes from magical devices. She was
sure she was going permanently blind from all the explosions of light.

"I asked my question first!" said one of the gremlins. Which, of course,
none of the other gremlins heard. This didn't prevent them from
spiraling into a fierce argument. The deluge of questions made it
impossible for Adelle to answer every one of them, and there is nothing
a gremlin hates more than an unanswered question. One of them grabbed
Adelle by the arm. Then another gremlin grabbed the other arm. Pulling
ensued. And more flashes.

Suddenly, Adelle was lifted into the air, wrenched from their grip, and
thrown backwards. She floated through the air at a furious pace before
being dropped inside an open coach on a street that was a level above
the street she had been on. She landed beside a tall, austere woman who
was looking at her with cold calculation.

"What in the world do you think you were doing?" asked the woman.

"Excuse me ma'am, but I truly don't know! I don't normally fly through
the air like that! I swear!"

"Not that! I'm talking about those infernal creatures! You were feeding
them!"

"You must be mistaken. I have no food with me. What could I have
possibly been feeding them?"

"Information, for one thing. Query Gremlins only do two things with
little girls: ask them questions, or eat them. Once they had finished
with the former, they would have proceeded to the latter."

"They were going to eat me?"

The woman rolled her eyes and motioned for the driver, a little gnome
with a coachman's cap larger than his head, to set off. He gave the
reins a good tug and the two emus that were harnessed to the coach
lunged forward, catapulting the coach along with them.

Adelle looked at her clothes. The sheet had been torn from her by the
gremlins, and her nightgown was in considerable disarray. She felt more
uncomfortable than ever, but she was the daughter of the King, and she
was determined to maintain whatever shred of dignity she could muster.

"I am Princess Adelle." she said as pleasantly as she could manage. "Who
are you?"

"What is a princess like you doing in the City of Orphans all alone?"
the woman asked.

Adelle paused for a moment, trying to maintain her composure. "I'm
trying to get a taste of life. Learn all I can about this fascinating
place. See the wonders of the world!"

"Good Author of Everything!" the woman moaned. "You should just be
grateful I got a hold of you when I did! You are even more
clueless than you look!"

"What do you mean?"

"You think this is a pleasant, happy little fairytale world? Well I'm
sorry to burst your bubble, your highness. This is the dregs of
insanity! This is Marloth! Welcome to Hell."

*She certainly is the most disagreeable of women!* Adelle thought to
herself. *I wouldn't be surprised if she can't get out of bed each
morning without having some poor soul to spank!*

It was then that she noticed the two children sitting behind them, a boy
and a girl.

"Who are they?" Adelle asked.

"My children." said the woman. "The little devils."

Adelle thought they looked rather disheveled and sickly. Each of them
was holding an armload of toys and candy, and both of them were glaring
at her in unison.

*And those are certainly the most disagreeable of children!* Adelle
noted as she sat back in her chair and looked straight ahead.

"Where are we going?" she asked.

"Why, to the Theatre. I own it. I am the Lady Mediev, Keeper of the Fine
and Mysterious Artes. I own most of the more elegant establishments here
in the City of Orphans. While the rest of this city tries to sink into
the mud, I try to bring a little culture to the world."

As she spoke, one of the children leaned forward with a stick and poked
Adelle viciously.

"Ow!" said Adelle.

The Lady Mediev turned to look at her children and frowned. "Now now, my
dears. You really shouldn't bother royalty. They're liable to go and
have you executed."

"You make me out to be some kind of monster!" said Adelle. "I wouldn't
go about executing people! I believe in kindness and consideration!
Besides, I---"

The Lady Mediev motioned for silence. "We're all monsters!" she said,
and then smiled, pinching each of her children on the cheek whimsically.
"Aren't we, now?"

The children smiled with her, and then one of them chucked a toy at a
gawking passerby.

The streets were rather haphazardly thrown together, rising up and down
and crisscrossing like a labyrinthian roller coaster track. The
strangest thing about it was that the streets genuinely appeared to be
moving and changing course around them, shifting from one side of a
building to another, suddenly deciding to double back against
themselves, or throw themselves across one of the many canals. Yet the
coachman proved to be a brilliant driver, and before long they came to a
magnificent structure at the edge of the main waterway. There were
several barges making their way across the water to the Theatre, and
crowds of people were scurrying along the streets and into the Theatre.

As they drew nearer and Adelle saw the crowds of people, a new fear
struck her. "I can't go to a play dressed like this!"

The Lady looked at her---something she hadn't done in some time. "While
it's not the most amazing dress I've ever seen, I'm afraid it will have
to do, your Highness."

Adelle was shocked by such a callous display, and was about to further
protest when her eyes looked downward. She was no longer wearing her
nightgown. Instead, she was clothed in an exquisite dress of a deep ruby
hue.

"Where did this---I wasn't wearing---Did you---"

"The main entrance is far too crowded," said the coachmen. "Even with my
sharpest wheels, there's no way we'll be able to get through them."

"Then take us to the top." said the Lady Mediev. The coachman nodded
grimly and motioned for the emus to make a sharp turn. After winding
their way up one street after another, Adelle realized they were heading
back toward the Theatre, but this time at a far higher level of the
city. The carriage tottered along a twisting street that wound high into
the air and finally connected with the top of the Theatre. The coach
rode onto the roof and came to a halt. There were several more emus on
the roof, all of them wandering about and grazing on tile. Several of
these migrated to the side of the coach and formed a stairway for its
occupants to descend.

"Welcome to the Theatre of Fine and Mysterious Artes!" said the
coachman, who had dropped to the ground and bowed.

With the coachman at the lead, the group made its way downstairs and
into a spacious entry room filled with crowds of people all trying to
get into the Theatre. The din was nearly overwhelming for Adelle; she
had never heard so much sound in her life. As they followed the coachman
again, he led them through a maze of halls and passageways. The further
they went, the louder the din became. When they finally emerged out onto
a balcony that overlooked the Theatre, the commotion was so deafening
that Adelle felt as though the air itself was pressing against her. She
couldn't hear herself think, much less imagine how so many people could
be attempting conversation in such a state. The Lady did not seem
affected by the noise. Her attention was on the rows of seats that lined
the balcony and to the people who were occupying them. Several
well-dressed men and women rose to greet her as they approached. "Allow
me to introduce Princess Adelle." said the Lady, motioning to Adelle.
"She will be staying at my manor for the next few days."

"I am?" said Adelle in surprise, though no one seemed to hear her.

"That's splendid news!" said one of the gentlemen. "It has been far too
long since we have had royalty stay here in the City."

"Yes," said one of the ladies. "It was beginning to look like the royal
family thought they were too good for us. Especially the King."

"May he rest in peace." said a second gentleman.

"What?" Adelle exclaimed.

"There's someone I would like you to meet," said the Lady Mediev.
"You've already met my younger children; my eldest is right over here."
Just beyond the group of adults there were several girls seated and
talking with great energy.

"Princess Adelle, allow me to introduce my eldest daughter, Ivy."

Ivy spotted Adelle and abruptly rose from the middle of her conversation
with an enthusiastic exclamation of "Adelle!" She went over and hugged
the princess. "It's so good to see you again! I had no idea you would be
coming to the City so soon!" She paused and stared at Adelle curiously.
"You look so much older."

Adelle was struggling to keep up. "The Lady Mediev is your mother?"
Ivy's countenance shriveled as she looked over at the Lady and said
"That's what they say." There was an awkward pause before Ivy rallied
herself. "But what does that matter? What's important is that one of the
greatest plays ever is about to begin. We've all been waiting months for
it to be released."

"What's it about?" asked Adelle.

One of the children Ivy had been talking to---a chubby girl with curly
hair---said, "Don't you know anything? This is 'Deminox Farinoi', 'The
Darke Dream'! The whole world has been waiting for this evening!"

"Not the whole world." said Adelle. "This is the first I've heard of
it."

The children were taken aback. "I always knew royalty was a little
sheltered, but not that much!" said one of the girls.

"How many plays have you been to?" asked the chubby girl.

"This is my first." A few of the girls backed away from Adelle.

"Who cares about the past?" said Ivy. "Now Adelle is here and will be
able to see it with the rest of us." She gave Adelle a reassuring look.
"I'm sure you'll love it!" She squeezed Adelle's hand and then said
"It's strange, but I had a feeling you were in the City; I had just
figured it must be fancy."

She looked like she was going to say more when everyone started to
return to their seats and the Lady Mediev motioned for her to be quiet
saying, "There will be more time to talk later. The play is starting!"

Once Adelle had been seated, she took her first real look at the inside
of the Theatre. It was huge. Cavernous. The ceiling rose far above them,
and endless rows of seats curved out in both directions below her. To
her surprise, nearly all of the audience members she could distinguish
were children. Well that was encouraging. She had been made nervous by
the Lady and her views, causing Adelle to wonder if the play would be
just as stuffy. But all of the children Adelle could see appeared very
excited, and she was certain that whatever was showing would be designed
with their young tastes in mind.

The story revolved around a group of children that wandered into an
abandoned orphanage and found themselves trapped inside by a cruel and
odious undead hunter by the name of Edward Tralvorkemen. The undead
hunter proceeded to systematically track down the zombie children
through the orphanage and exterminate them. While he was not as agile as
them, he was equipped with an array of deadly weapons and devices to
assist in his genocide, and the orphanage itself was filled with booby
traps. But in the end, the few remaining zombie children were able to
catch him in one of his own traps and escape.

It took Adelle some time to realize that they were not ordinary children
in the story, but were actually zombies. At first she was shocked by the
fact, but after seeing the way the undead hunter would gleefully ignore
their pleas for mercy and dispatch them in gruesome ways, she found
herself increasingly sympathetic to the poor creatures. By the end when
the man was slashed to pieces by his own trap, Adelle was horrified, but
also relieved. The nightmare was over and the children were free.

After the play had finished several people asked Adelle what she thought
of it. She said she wasn't sure. Ivy recommended that Adelle see it a
second time, and also said that what they had just seen was only the
first part of two, and that the second part would be presented in a few
weeks and that Adelle simply had to see it. Adelle replied that she
would consider it.

Meanwhile, far above the audience, a maddened goblin was pummeling his
head in frustration. *What were they thinking?* The princess was
surrounded by his kids and they weren't doing a thing! Why wasn't she
captured yet? Why weren't they at least hurting her?

As the play ended and the crowds began to file out of the auditorium,
Deadwick decided he needed to deal with the princess himself. He waited
at the back of the lobby and eventually the Lady Mediev and several
children appeared, one of them being the princess. As the owner of the
establishment, the Lady was in no hurry to leave and began mingling with
some of the more prominent members of the crowd. This left Adelle alone
with the other girls and Ivy's younger siblings (their names were
Phyllis and Loury). Deadwick moved in.

He stopped in front of the princess and bowed. "Good evening, your
highness. I am Deadwick the goblin, an ambassador from the venerable
doctor Otto Marrechian. Would you be so kind as to spare a few minutes
of your time?"

Deadwick nearly put his hand to his mouth in shock. Did he just say all
that? He didn't even know what some of those words meant!

Adelle gave him a polite smile. Even though Adelle was slightly put off
by his unkempt appearance, she was impressed by his manners. "Yes. I
should be able to afford a few minutes. What matter do you wish to speak
of?"

"My master---I mean, my *boss*---is a dedicated philanthropist. In his
efforts to benefit humanity, he has created a machine that ... heals
people. But so far it can only heal children. Otto has tried and tried
to make it also work on adults, but with no success. I don't understand
the details, but apparently you are the only person who can help him fix
his machine so it can heal everyone. You are the key."

"I'm very flattered." said Adelle. "What would I need to do to assist
him?"

"All my master---I mean, my *boss*---needs is for you to visit his
laboratory. I could escort you there this very evening."

"This evening? I just arrived here today! No, I couldn't do it so soon.
Perhaps in a few days. Or next week. I'm sure the doctor can wait that
long."

"But---"

Ivy stepped forward. "She's already given you her answer, and your time
is up."

Deadwick glared at Ivy. He knew who she was, and who her mother was.
Adelle tried to smooth things out.

"I really would like to help your master, but if it means my leaving the
City of Orphans, I already have prior engagements and am simply not free
to go with you right now."

Deadwick stood there for a moment, smoldering. Enough of this. It was
time to resort to tried and true violence. Deadwick reached for his gun.

And found himself standing outside the theater. He turned around in
confusion and stared at the doorway behind him. Did he have a vague
recollection of saying farewell to the princess and leaving? Yes, he
did.

What was wrong with him? Was he going insane? He needed to barge back
inside and take her captive!

But he didn't. Instead, he set off down the street, wondering why in the
world he was doing it.

* * *

The Mediev Manor was not far from the Theatre, and this was where they
eventually stopped for the night. It was agreed that it was too late to
prepare a room for Adelle, but that she would sleep with Ivy. There was
also talk of her attending school with Ivy as long as she was there.
Adelle was hesitant about that idea, but the Lady insisted, and Ivy
wanted it as well, so she said she would try at least one day of it.

Phyllis and Loury proved to be a handful, even for Ivy. She was
constantly yelling at her siblings to give her space. At one point she
locked the door to her room but they managed to climb in from one of the
windows and proceeded to run around like little savages. Adelle thought
this feat of gaining access to the room was rather impressive, but Ivy
wasn't amused one bit and chased them around the house. It wasn't until
the two pests finally ran out of energy and crashed in their respective
rooms that Ivy and Adelle were really free to talk.

"You've shown me some of your toys, now I'd like to show you something
of mine," said Ivy. She reached across the bed and grabbed two small
objects of cloth.

"These two are my favorites!" she said. "They help me catch boys!"

Adelle looked at the stuffed creatures in puzzlement. They were both
very pink, fuzzy, and round. Somehow they made her think of bunny
rabbits even though they didn't have much in the way of ears. While she
thought they were cute, from the little she had seen of boys, she could
not imagine them being attracted to such things.

"I bought them at the toyshop." said Ivy. "Their names are Bipsy and
Boppin."

Adelle said they were very cute and then, after Ivy showed Adelle
several other of her things, (all of them very expensive), the girls
proceeded to catching up on what had happened to each of them since they
had last spoken, though for Adelle the details were surprisingly fuzzy.
She couldn't even recall exactly how she had arrived at the City. But
that didn't bother her.

They stayed up late into the night talking. Adelle wanted to know
everything about life in the City of Orphans, and Ivy was happy to
flaunt her knowledge of it. Adelle also felt more free to talk about
boys with Ivy than with anyone else she knew. Adelle had caught a
glimpse of Bobby at the Theatre, and she asked if he would be at school
the next day. Ivy said he usually was. This intelligence both excited
Adelle and made her even more nervous about the next morning. When she
finally did fall asleep she had humiliating dreams of what her first day
of school would be like.

* * *

In a back corner of a seedy bar somewhere within the City of Orphans,
Deadwick the goblin was waiting for one of his many informants. Time
passed. Deadwick drummed his fingers against the table impatiently.

Suddenly there was a shift in the light and the goblin's informant was
sitting in front of him. The informant was a shade; a creature of the
night that appeared as little more than an indistinct humanoid carved
from blackness, gulping down a mug of beer.

"There you are." said Deadwick.

"There I've been." said the informant.

Deadwick muttered something indiscernible under his breath.

The informant continued draining its mug. "So what would you like to
know?" it asked.

"What I want to know is why everything gets weird when the princess is
around. Everyone starts acting funny. My kids don't do what they're
told, I can't even touch her, people start using big words, so on and so
on. It's getting ridiculous! Do you know anything about any of that?"

"Yes, I do. But that is particularly valuable information."

"Here, I'll give you six lollipops."

"Even more valuable than that."

"You're killing me! Okay, I'll throw in a handful of jawbreakers."

"Deal." The informant took the goods and they disappeared into shadow.
Then he drew closer for the proper mode of divulging skullduggery.

"Earlier this evening I overheard an exchange betwixt a representative
of the Wizard's Council and the Lady Mediev. Supposedly the Lady has a
peculiar knack for spotting enchantments. The representative---he called
himself Message---said the wizards knew there was some kind of spell
surrounding the princess but they couldn't figure out what it was, and
this Message fellow was demanding she tell him all about it. She plays
dumb for a while, but he threatened a good deal, you know, the typical
wizards 'we'll curse your bowels and burn your dog' kind of stuff.
Apparently she is sort of a member of the Wizards Council herself but
it's complicated since she's a dame, and she says they should go to hell
and they say she needs to obey them and she says they should get
haircuts and they say---well, you get the idea. So after more
threatening and fuss she finally says the reason why the wizards have
had such a hard time figuring out what the deal is with the princess is
because there is not one, but *two* spells surrounding her, and those
spells are mixing to strange effect. The first is an aura that protects
her from evil."

"Like us." said the goblin.

"Right. It's basically a magical shield around her. The Lady said the
princess got it from her parents, but she didn't say how. I never knew
either of them to do any magic."

"You said there were two of them. What's the other one?"

"The other spell has to do with some kind of amulet. It's magical. She
used a lot of fancy magic lingo that I didn't catch and you wouldn't
have either, but I was able to gather that this amulet has something to
do with making people fall head over heels for whoever wears it. She
said it affects guys differently than girls."

"In what way?"

"She didn't go into detail there."

"Did she say what the amulet looked like?"

"No, except the girl must be wearing it most of the time."

"Every time I've seen the princess, she was wearing a crown. I bet
that's the amulet."

"She's got a crown? Yeah, the crown might be the amulet, though I'd
expect such a thing of power to be better hidden."

Deadwick scratched his gnarled chin pensively. "So whatever this amulet
is, all we have to do is snatch it from her and that should deal with
one problem. The only hitch would be making sure that whatever gets
nicked is actually the amulet." Deadwick smiled wickedly. "Looks like
the best means would be to completely strip her!"

"Taking it won't be that easy. From the way the Lady talked, it sounded
like she wants the amulet as much as she wants the girl, but can't pinch
it yet 'cause of both spells together. She said if it was only a matter
of one or the other, she'd already have the amulet, but the two spells
are an overwhelming combination. If the Lady can't take the amulet even
with all her magic, you'll probably have an even harder time."

"Then what about the shield thing? Did she say how to get rid of that?"

"She said it could be chipped away. But she didn't say how. That was the
limit to what Message's threatening could accomplish. At that point the
Lady put her foot down and said she had given more than enough
information and if the wizards still needed more than they should go
find someone else to hold their hand. Then she did some threatening of
her own. It was very entertaining."

"Is that all?"

"For you, yes."

"I don't think that was worth all that candy."

"Feel free to come and get it back." said the shade. And then it faded
out of sight, leaving behind for a few seconds longer the sound of
slurping alcohol.

* * *

Doctor Hurley entered the medical room to find the nurse curled in a
chair by the operating table, her attention wrapped up in a book. He no
sooner arrived than the nurse hurriedly jumped up and began fiddling
with several metal implements. The doctor stood there for a moment,
looking stern.

"Found a good book?" he asked.

The nurse tried to act nonchalant. "I was just glancing at it for a
moment."

The doctor walked over and examined it. His brow furrowed.

"This looks like the book that boy wrote." he said.

"Yes, I suppose it is." said the nurse, not looking up from her work.

"How did you even get a hold of this? I thought I had it locked away
upstairs. You know how much trouble is wrapped up in this book?" the
doctor asked.

The nurse didn't immediately reply. "All I know is that it's a good
window into the boy's mind."

The doctor hadn't expected that. "What do you mean by that?" he
demanded.

"Well, I've grown to care a great deal for the child, and I wanted to
get to know him better. I listened a good amount to him when he was
delirious, talking in his sleep and all. He was talking about similar
things as are in that book. The last chapter I was reading told about a
little girl who was becoming famous. He talked a lot about a little girl
in his sleep. He said she was in trouble. There's something strangely
consistent about it all. I can't help wondering if there really is a
little girl who is in trouble."

The doctor pulled up a chair across from the nurse and looked straight
at her. Her sight remained focused on the medicines she was preparing.

"You don't actually believe he's sane, do you?" he asked.

The nurse looked up, eyes wide.

"Because if so, we'd be happy to give you room and board here. I think
there's even a vacancy in the room across from him. You two could keep
each other company."

The nurse looked shocked.

"Oh, I'm sorry!" said the doctor, seeing her expression. "I was only
joking!" he patted her on the shoulder. "Come now! You're as sane as I
am."

The nurse began to breathe again. "So you're not angry about the book?"

The doctor smiled. "Of course not! If you had been reading the book the
boy had before, I would have been rather alarmed, but this is the one he
wrote. I've read through it myself, and while it's as bizarre as a drunk
nun, I don't think it could cause any harm."

"Thank you." said the nurse.

"Think nothing of it. You've worked here so long and hard, you deserve a
few liberties. Besides, look at you! You're already preparing for your
six o'clock rounds, and it's only five!"

The nurse looked confused. "But this is for---" She looked at the clock
behind her. "Lord help us!" she exclaimed. "It's five o'clock! All of
the patients! Their medications! Oh, Mr. Hurley, please forgive me!"

"Whatever for?"

"Time has slipped past me! I was not preparing for the six o'clock
rounds, but for the three o'clock rounds!"

The doctor looked concerned. "Maybe this book *is* trouble, if it could
cause someone like you to actually miss a round. From what I can recall,
you've never missed *anything* in all the years I've worked here." and
then, after a moment's thought, "But I thought most of the patients
weren't on the three o'clock round."

"Only a handful are! And one of them is the boy! His medication has
surely run out by now!"

She grabbed the tray of medical instruments and hurried for the door.

"I fear the madness has already returned!"

* * *

James sat up and looked around. He thought he'd heard something.

On the other side of the mirror, the boy was holding a picture of a
little girl and staring it up and down.

"She is so beautiful!" the reflection exclaimed. "She's the most
beautiful creature in the world!"

James stared at the poster. That was the girl. The girl in his dreams.
The boy on the other side saw James' fascination and his smile
broadened.

"You like her, don't you?" he asked.

James didn't like the reflection boy in the least. He hoped that if he
ignored him the boy would go away. Or at least go back to mimicking him
like any proper reflection should.

"But she'll never give us the time of day, will she?" the boy continued.

James turned away from the mirror and faced the other wall.

"And why? Because we're *dead!* Tough luck, falling in love with a girl
who's alive. Tragic, really."

James spun around. "I'm not dead!"

The other boy shook his head patiently, as though trying to convince a
baby that not everything in the world should go in your mouth.

"Don't you remember the castle? How she looked at you when she realized
who we were? Don't you remember her face? She was horrified! And why
not? We're an abomination!"

Images flashed across James' vision. He felt jabs of pain and clasped
his hands to his head as though someone were stabbing his mind. The
other boy returned to the picture.

"I must admit, for how seemingly perfect she is, she does have one flaw.
But it's a flaw that can be amended."

"If she has a flaw, it's not seeing how screwed up this world is!"

"No, her flaw is far simpler than that. But so is the remedy. The remedy
is love."

"You're crazy!" said James.

"Of course we are!" said the boy and then, looking back at the picture,
"All that the girl needs is love. All we need to do is love her with all
our soul. To love her like this!"

Leaping viciously across the room, he pulled out a knife seemingly from
mid air and buried it into the center of the poster.

"Don't worry my love," he whispered soothingly, leaning against the
wall. "Don't cry. It will only hurt a little bit."

"Stop it!" James screamed. He slammed his fist against the mirror. It
had no effect. He hit it again. He kept hitting it until both his hand
and the mirror were covered in blood, but still the mirror remained. The
reflection boy was still in the same pose as when he had stabbed the
poster, except now he was slowly tearing the picture up with his knife.

"And then, you will be born again. You will be a new person, and see us
through new and kinder eyes." the reflection went on, not seeming to
notice James' desperate attempts.

James took hold of the chair and began beating the mirror with it. Legs
splintered off the chair and flew bouncing off the walls. By then his
rage had blurred into sobbing.

"And then, for once, you will love us."

James' soul broke in half. When the nurse finally came rushing into the
room, she found him collapsed onto the floor in a pool of his tears and
blood. He lay huddled and twitching, deliriously begging for more drugs.
"I am so sorry!" she said, as she knelt beside him. Taking the syringe,
she hurriedly administered the shot, and then took some gauze out of her
apron to tend to his bleeding. The medication worked quickly. By the
time she had turned to his wounds and was bandaging them, he was already
fine. He no longer felt the pain. He no longer cared.

* * *

Adelle awoke the next morning with much apprehension. Today was her
first day of school. It was not in a completely official capacity; she
was simply going to visit the school and accompany Ivy through each of
her classes, but still, it was a radically new experience for her, and
she felt ill prepared.

After breakfast they were about to walk out the door when Ivy suddenly
stopped.

"Oh, I almost forgot!" said Ivy. She ran upstairs and quickly returned
with Bipsy and Boppin. Then she stuffed each of them beneath the front
of her dress.

"There!" she said. "Now we are ready!"

They went outside where a carriage was waiting for them. Ivy spotted her
mother inside. "What does she think she's doing?" Ivy grumbled. "She
never accompanies me to school."

"Good morning." said the Lady Mediev as Ivy and Adelle stepped into the
carriage. "I trust you slept well?"

"Yes, I did, thank you." said Adelle, and then, after failing to think
of anything better to ask, "What are you doing today after you drop us
off at school?"

"I'm not dropping you off. I'm going to the school as I do every week
day."

"Oh, but Ivy said---"

"Silly, we have many carriages!" said Ivy, feigning a joke. The Lady was
not clear as to what her daughter meant, and simply continued.

"It would be very remiss for me not to be present at the school,
considering that I am a member of its faculty."

"What? You mean you teach?" said Adelle.

"Yes, among the million other roles I shoulder in this society."

"It's a wonder she finds the time to raise a family." said Ivy.

There was an awkward pause until the Lady resumed speaking. "And what is
the sum of your education so far?" she asked Adelle.

"In the castle I had a tutor. He taught me geography, history, science,
arithmetic, how to read and write several languages, and court
etiquette."

"Is that all?"

Adelle reviewed her lessons for a moment. "Yes, that covers all my major
courses, though my tutor always said that the most important thing he
could teach me was wisdom. He was a very good teacher and very patient."

"It sounds like your education has been neglected."

"Neglected? What do you mean?"

"I mean that the limited selection of subjects you've been exposed to
explains much about your behavior."

Adelle struggled very hard not to be put out by this and asked, "What
subjects do you teach?"

The Lady drew herself up even straighter (if that was possible) as
though she had been waiting the whole time to answer that question.
"Some schools slave away at bestowing children with wisdom, but wisdom
is so overrated. Every philosopher throughout history is dead and what
good did it do them? No, I bestow more practical things like style and
sex appeal. But most importantly, I give classes on class."

"I'm not sure I follow you ... "

The Lady frowned. "Clearly your education has been gravely neglected.
*Class* is what makes the world go round. The more of it you have the
more people you can look down upon."

"And that's ... *good?*"

The Lady rolled her eyes. "You are barely ready to suckle milk, much
less be conversed to about the foundations of life. Come back to me in
five years and then we'll be able to resume this lesson."

When they arrived at school and entered the school grounds, it was as if
Ivy was a different person. She smiled and laughed and waved to all her
friends. She went from the despondent cynic to the bubbling socialite.
She and Adelle entered one of the many school buildings and started down
a long hall filled with students. Halfway down the hall they came across
a group of children who were each friends of Ivy to varying degrees.
Osmand was among them, and so was the chubby girl from the night before.
(Her name was Sandy, though everyone called her Sandwich.)

The first person in the group to notice them coming was a pretty looking
girl by the name of Wendy. Her clothing and makeup were also a little
creepier than the other children. As the two girls approached she
laughed and said, "So Ivy, I see you're finally not the only one with a
fetish for color."

That's when Adelle first noticed. She and Ivy were the only two children
whose clothes had vivid hues. For everyone else there were occasional
muted patches of color, but they were mostly clothed in shades of black
and gray.

"But the princess is even beyond Ivy!" Wendy continued. "Look at her
skin---it's all pink and rosy! Honey, nobody has colored skin anymore.
What was that called again ... ?"

"Flesh tones?" said Sandwich.

"Yes! Flesh tones! That is *so* pass\\\'e! Chalk white, ash gray, or
coal black---those are the complexions of choice."

"But I can't change the color of my skin!"

The girls smiled wickedly. "Oh, there is a way ... "

"Oh look!" said another girl. "Her cheeks are getting even redder!"

Adelle was about ready to sink into the floor when a voice said behind
her, "I think her skin looks cool. It's unique. Maybe she'll start a new
trend."

Adelle turned to see who had spoken. It was Bobby! He and two of his
friends had approached the group from the side.

"Yeah right." said Wendy. "They'd call it 'Royal Flush.'"

"I'm going to be late for class if I don't hurry." said Ivy, grabbing
Adelle's hand and moving past the group and on to Ivy's first class of
the day.

"Don't worry, they're just teasing." she said to Adelle. "You easily
outclass them, and before long they'll see it."

"What were they going on about my skin for?"

Ivy looked embarrassed. "Well it sort of proclaims that you're ... that
you've never done it before."

"Done what?"

"It! You know ... *died*."

Adelle looked confused. "Of course I haven't! Is this more of your city
slang?"

"Yeah, yeah. It's just a ... manner of speech."

"What does it mean?"

"Right now we have class." Ivy said as they stepped into the classroom.

* * *

Adelle was having a difficult time concentrating on the different
classes she was in. She had heard much from the other students, and the
more they spoke to her, the worse she felt. She looked out the window.
The sky was overcast and gray. She didn't like gray.

At one point the Lady Mediev entered the classroom and stood near the
back. The teacher asked her if she would like a seat, but she said she
was merely checking on how each of the classes were going and would only
be staying for a few minutes. Adelle breathed a little easier when the
woman finally left the room. That was how the entire morning had been:
no matter where Adelle was, the Lady always seemed to be close by.

"So how is your first day of school so far?"

Adelle turned to find Jakob Damond sitting in the seat next to her. No
one seemed to notice either his person or his speaking. Most of the
students seemed to be zoned out as it was.

Adelle sighed. "It's alright, I guess. I'm intrigued by the different
subjects being offered, but it is hard the way most of the children are
treating me. They mock my hair, my clothes, my skin, the way I talk,
everything! No matter how nice I am to them, they somehow manage to use
it against me! One girl told me she wore clothes like mine ... when she
was *five!* I don't understand; this isn't anything like what you said
it would be!"

"Don't give up yet. Everything I said was true, you just need to tap
into your own abilities."

"The only ability I have is the power to make people laugh ... *at me*."

"Don't disparage yourself so. Your abilities are vast. And that crown is
the key to unlocking them. But it will do little unless wielded."

"How does one wield a crown?"

"It's an intuitive process. The crown follows your desires. Feed your
desires and make them grow. Channel your passions and the crown will
follow suit. The instinct is already in you, it's just a matter of
practice."

"I don't know ... that doesn't sound like me. I'm---"

"Excuse me, little miss princess, but are you talking in the middle of
my class?"

That was the teacher. He looked as pleased as he sounded. Adelle's
stomach twisted itself like a wet rag and she turned to the toymaker for
assistance but---as seemed to be the usual case---he wasn't there
anymore.

"Hello? I asked you a question." the teacher continued. Adelle didn't
know what to say. She felt about ready to burst into tears. She wished
the teacher wouldn't treat her like all of the students.

"I'm sorry," said the teacher. "I shouldn't have lost my temper. I
really am glad to have the future Queen of Marloth in my classroom. I
hope you enjoy the lesson."

The teacher resumed his lecture and Adelle was left staring at him in
amazement.

* * *

After school Ivy and Adelle hit the town to engage in some much needed
shopping. While Adelle did not have any money, Ivy attempted to explain
to her the magical thing known as "credit", and how there was no greater
and more widely accepted line of credit than the royal coffers. Adelle
did not fully comprehend these explanations, but it was not hard to
accept the giddy freedom of "buy whatever you want without care."

Adelle was astonished at how many shops there were. And so many things
to buy that she had never imagined before. Dresses that made what she
had worn in the castle look like potato sacks. Cosmetics, ribbons, hair
dyes, jewelry, exotic foods and drinks, and an endless variety of other
novelties.

One particular thing Adelle fell in love with was a gem studded music
box that sounded like it had an entire orchestra inside it. She promptly
purchased it and for the rest of the day its music accompanied their
exploits.

"That is a nice music box," said Ivy. "But I've seen more fantastic at
Jakob Damond's Toye Shoppe."

"Oh! I would love to see that place! Why don't we shop there next?"

Ivy shook her head. "It's not here right now. It moves from one place to
another. Personally, I suspect its movements aren't for any geographic
reason; he's just trying to increase the rarity of his goods."

"When will it be in the City again?"

"No one knows. It could be any day."

Adelle was also amazed at how many interesting people she met in the
city. Everyone was so friendly and gracious to her. All of the
shopkeepers were eager to give her discounts. The query gremlins had
published many articles with pictures of her so that many people
recognized her on sight and would wave and call out to welcome her to
the City of Orphans. The query goblins were still following her, but in
the public crowds of daylight they were much more discreet and limited
their activities to flashing their strange devices from a distance.

Adelle wished the day would last forever, but eventually the sun set and
it was time for dinner so the two girls hurried back to the Manor with
the spoils of their conquest.

As was mentioned before, the Lady Mediev owned some of the more elegant
establishments in the City of Orphans. The two grandest of these was the
Theatre and the Globe. The Globe was a dome-shaped ballroom poised on a
hill at the far end of the City. The Globe's outer surface was made
almost entirely of magically enforced glass. After dinner, Adelle
accompanied Ivy and a group of her friends to the Globe to hang out and
dance.

While so far Adelle had been impressed by all that she had seen of the
City, she had also been slightly shocked by how much wilder everything
was. The drinks had more alcohol, the games had more violence, and the
music had more rocks in it. Everything had to be always newer and
bolder. By that point she was starting to see a pattern.

Her education had included instruction in all the forms of dancing that
appeared in royal court, but Adelle was afraid she would find the City's
idea of dancing far more wild and aggressive than anything she knew or
particularly wanted to know. But it turned out that dancing was the one
remaining bastion of antiquity in the City of Orphans. The music was
smooth and majestic, and so were the movements that accompanied it. The
flavor of dancing was so tame compared to the rest of the City that it
almost felt out of step, but Adelle didn't mind. She had never felt so
at home since she had arrived there. This was something she knew, and
she was pleased to find so many young men who also knew the forms of
dance she enjoyed most. From then on the Globe became her regular place
to visit every evening. While between her and Ivy she was normally the
more responsible one, when it came to the Globe it was Ivy who was
always pulling Adelle away from it and begging to get home and to bed.

Adelle soon learned that the magic which controlled the Globe's
appearance was not presently running at full capacity, which she found
hard to believe. The Globe was already breathtaking, but apparently even
in its present state its lights were not as brilliant, the sound was not
as loud, the magical flourishes of color not as vibrant as they could
be. This was for two reasons. One, because it was too costly to run the
Globe at full power every night, and secondly, because the full display
of power was reserved for the Grand Ball that was held once a year. The
Lady Mediev made sure to maintain a contrast between the Globe's
everyday operation and its appearance on that special night. That was
always the most anticipated night in all of Marloth. They said that when
the Globe was raised to full power it provided light for the entire
City. And what was more, Adelle learned that the Ball was only a handful
of weeks away. She could hardly wait!

* * *

Never before had the nurse looked forward to her breaks between rounds
as she did now. She was finding herself morbidly fascinated by the book
the boy had written, and read it every spare moment she could find.

The marble hall was far longer than the boy had realized. It seemed to
continue on forever. But at least he could easily run twice as fast as
his pursuers, and before long they were little more than a pinprick of
torchlight in the distance. The raven was easily matching his pace,
soaring above him.

James stopped for a moment to look around.

"This hall seems to go on forever!" the raven moaned. "I could swear
this place didn't look so big from the outside!"

"If I'd known it I would have gone through one of those doors back
there." said James. "But it appears that they've stopped. The last door
we passed was at least a good mile behind us."

"Well let's not go back." said the raven. "Unless my keen eyes are
failing me, that crowd is growing in number. Those stuffed coats have
turned into a throng! There's something not right about all of this. I
sense magic. Dangerous magic."

"Well come on, they're getting closer." said James. "Let's keep moving!"

It wasn't much longer before they came across a small table in the
middle of the hall, around which were gathered a handful of characters,
all huddled closely together. As James drew nearer he saw that they were
playing a rather unusual sort of card game.

"Hello." said James. No one acknowledged him. Apparently they were in
the middle of a particularly intense round.

"I'll play a skeleton and the toymaker." said one of the players, laying
two cards on the table. He was in a white gown, and James guessed that
he was a patient there.

"I'll double that." This was a doglike creature beside him, who appeared
to be made out of faded pieces of patchwork crudely sewed together.

"Ha, well I've got both a king a queen, so you can just save yourselves
the trouble and kick the proverbial bucket!" This was a zombie child.

"What about you? Are you going to fold?" asked the dog creature of the
player on his left, a monkey.

The monkey did not reply, but placed a single card on the table. Upon
the card was depicted a giant person sneezing and laying waste to a
small city.

The zombie child threw down his cards in disgust. "Not again! There's
only one of those cards in the whole deck! How in the world do you keep
drawing it?"

"Excuse me, gentlemen," said the raven, landing in the middle of the
table, "but do any of you know a way out of this endless hall we're in?"

"Now I'm seeing talking birds!" said the patient. "Shoo, talking bird! I
can only take so much of this at one time!"

"Do you know what the test for madness is?" asked the dog creature,
shuffling his cards back into the deck.

"No, what?" asked the patient.

"If you can see me, you're crazy." said the dog creature.

The monkey began to laugh quietly. It was vaguely unsettling.

James looked back and once again saw the ominous torchlight appear at
the end of the hall. For a while they had gotten far enough ahead that
it was out of sight, but now their pursuers were catching up to them.

"How do I get out of the Asylum?" James asked.

"That's a bit complicated." said the dog creature. "Much more
complicated than me simply giving a few directions. You have to to get
out of here."

"Wait a minute," said the zombie child, who had been eyeing the monkey
for a good while. "I think you're cheating!"

The monkey made a face and went back to his cards.

"I'm positive! That little devil is cheating!" the zombie child shouted,
pointing at the monkey.

"So what?" said the dog creature. "We're cheating."

"That mob is getting closer!" the raven crowed.

"Can you help us get out of here?" James asked.

"Depends. Why do you want to get out?"

"Because they want to lock me in a cell and keep me there!" James
moaned. "They think I'm crazy!"

"Well, can you see me?" asked the dog creature.

James thought about this.

"Can you see yourself?" he asked.

The creature screwed up his face for a moment and then laughed. "I never
thought of that. I must be crazy too!"

Sometime later the nurse put down the book. This was getting too
surreal. She looked over at the doll that was resting on the table
before her. Then she looked back at the book and read the passage again.
The similarity was creepy.

Finally, she grabbed the doll and went to James' cell. She found him
curled up on his bed, though he wasn't asleep. The nurse drew closer and
said to him. "I don't know how it got there, but I found this in one of
the halls. I thought you would like it."

She handed him a small, mangy looking cloth animal. James did not say
anything, but he took the object and held it close to him.

"Have you seen this cloth animal before?" she asked him. James nodded.
"What is its name?"

"Fugue." said James.

* * *

The next day of school went much more steadily. While Adelle still saw
much of the Lady Mediev, the woman was no longer hovering over her as
she had been before. And after the initial shock of having the heir of
Marloth at the school, the children began to adjust to her and the
teasing diminished. The crown may have had something to do with that.

Between two of her classes she passed by the field where all the major
sporting events took place. There she saw multiple teams competing in
some game that involved a rubber ball. She knew little about such
things, but she knew enough to tell that Bobby was exceptionally good at
what he was doing. Later on she learned from the other children that he
was the strongest and fastest youth in Marloth, and the champion of
every major athletic competition. But as she watched him, all she could
think was not how impressive his record was, but how wonderful it would
be if he talked to her.

After the rest of her classes, Adelle met outside the school with Ivy
and several other children. She was starting to get a sense for who
Ivy's usual crowd was. Sandwich and Wendy were there, and so was Harris.
There was no sign of Bobby though.

Adelle noticed Osmand in the back. She felt sorry for him. He looked so
lonely and no one seemed to care. She went out of her way to catch his
eyes and say, "Hi Osmand!" Osmand was amazed that she would acknowledge
him and after gathering his wits, he timidly waved back at her.

Ivy linked arms with her and said to her eagerly "After school some of
us are going over to the Candy Castle to eat Jillybons. You want to
come?"

"Oh! I'm not allowed to eat Jillybons."

"What's not allowing you?"

"My parents; the King and Queen."

"And where are they?"

Adelle opened her mouth to reply and suddenly hit a gap in her mind.
Everything having to do with her parents was so fuzzy now. She'd half
forgotten she had parents. How were they doing? When had she last seen
them?"

"I don't know." she said at last.

"You don't even know where they are? Do you want to come or not?"

"I would love to, but I can't disobey my parents!"

"Fine. It's your life."

As Adelle watched her friends set off for the Candy Castle, she
forlornly turned her mind to wondering how she was to get back to the
Manor. She had heard that large cities like this contained many forms of
public transportation, but she was not sure how to employ them. It was
while she was considering this predicament that she heard a voice beside
her say, "You know, you always could ride with me."

Adelle turned to see Jakob Damond standing by her side like an out of
place shadow. She wasn't surprised anymore. He had become like some
footnote to her life that followed her around.

"My memory is unclear about the last time I rode with you," she said.
"But I have the impression that it was rather uncomfortable."

"Pshaw! Where's your sense of adventure? But if you want comfort, then
we'll drive in comfort!"

Adelle looked and there was a coach in front of them. It was similar to
the one Damond had used before, except this was lower and longer. It had
shiny black paint and rubber tires. The windows were also painted solid
black, which Adelle thought rather silly.

One of the doors opened, beckoning them to enter. Adelle found the
inside of the coach far more luxurious than any she had seen before. The
interior was so plush with velvet that it resembled a padded cell. And
it turned out that she could see clearly through the windows from the
inside; it was only from the outside that they appeared opaque.

"The world is your oyster." said the toymaker. "Where would you like to
go?"

"The Mediev Manor would be good." said Adelle.

"Hmm. Not the most exciting destination, but no worry. Your whim is my
demand."

As they journeyed to the Manor, the toymaker asked how she was getting
along with the crown.

"I think I'm starting to understand what you were speaking of the other
day." Adelle replied. "People have been increasingly civil to me since
our talk." Then she sighed. "But I'm still a long way from being a
queen."

"Not as far as you may think. You've already taken your first step
toward becoming a queen. You are outside of the castle and experiencing
the wide, magical world of Marloth for yourself. And not just that,
you've also taken a second step too: the people are already talking
about you right and left. You've managed to make a big impression on a
populace that is so accustomed to the extraordinary that it takes a lot
to grab their attention; yet you've done it."

"The next step is to transmute interest into idolatry. This present age
is very skeptical about things like nobility. They would prefer to see
more qualities in a leader than a lucky birth. What they want are
tangible attributes they can witness firsthand. Your face is a good
start; it was made to be on the front of every paper and magazine. But
you need more than a pretty face; you need to *do* something with it."

"I'm guessing you already have something in mind?"

"Yes. The best thing for you would be to sing."

"To sing? As with music?"

"Exactly! A performance could be arranged at the Theatre. The entire
City would show up to hear your lovely voice, and every one of them
would fall in love with you!"

"I'm sorry to disappoint you, Mr. Damond, but even though that sounds
absolutely amazing---and, I confess, a little scary ... I can't sing."

"Nonsense! You're a princess. Of course you can sing!"

Adelle was not entirely convinced by this, but she decided to approach
the idea from a different angle. "But even if I could sing, and showed
the world that I could, so what? What does singing have to do with being
a queen?"

"Everything! Music is inspiring. These people need someone to inspire
them. You're the one to do it."

"I don't feel very inspiring."

The toymaker laughed and told her not to worry. She had everything she
needed. Queenhood was just around the corner.

It was not much later that they arrived at the Mediev Manor. Before
Adelle left the carriage the toymaker expressed how great his delight
would be if she could again visit his toyshop sometime soon.

Adelle looked perplexed. "I would love to visit your toyshop, though
I've never actually been there before."

The toymaker laughed again and said he had no idea what he had been
thinking of. After thanking him for all of his encouragement and the use
of his carriage, Adelle entered the house.

* * *

Ivy returned that evening looking very cheerful. It was not long after
her arrival that Adelle and the rest of the Mediev household sat down at
the table for dinner. While they were eating, the Lady brought up an
idea she had been contemplating.

"Adelle, a thought occurred to me today. While you have been seen around
the City on a number of occasions, it would be good for you to have a
more official public appearance. I considered many ideas, but one keeps
rising to the top. How would you like to sing at my Theatre?"

Adelle was astounded. After some thought she said she would like that,
though she was not as certain as she acted. The Lady beamed at her and
further explained the many benefits such a concert would render to the
princess. Then the conversation shifted to the matter of selecting a
repertoire and practicing it. The Lady had a number of vocal instructors
under her employ and knew of just the one for Adelle. Her training would
begin on the morrow.

* * *

The problem that faces doctors in a mental institution was the same
problem that faces doctors in any other medical field: if there is
something broken inside a patient, how do you get inside to fix it? How
do you pass through all of the parts of the patient that stand between
you and the part that is broken? Do you take the direct approach and cut
your way to it? Do you introduce foreign chemicals into the patient? Or
do you try to fix them indirectly by manipulating the patient from the
outside?

Doctor Hurley was convinced that all of these methods were insufficient.
He wanted to get to the root of the problem. To climb inside his patient
and rearrange them from the atomic level. To determine the fundamental
essence of human life and take control of it. What he was presently
experimenting with looked like the medicinal route, but the stuff he was
filling his syringes with was far more complex and intelligent than any
chemical. If even one of the other doctors discovered what he was doing,
he would be fired. Or maybe arrested. But they were never going to find
out. They would not have understood even if they had seen it. He was
attempting to tame forces that few people know of.

As he passed the rows of patients, he didn't pay them much attention. To
him most of the people in the Asylum were hopeless. He was not going to
waste his time on them. Even if they could be cured, they would never be
of much use. They weren't part of the big picture, and were simply
draining resources from an establishment that didn't really understand
what it could be doing. It wasn't enough for Doctor Hurley to simply
return patients to functioning roles in society. People could function
in society and yet still harbor gross delusions. He wanted to slay *all*
the fantasies. He wanted to reach into the minds of men and mold them
until they clearly saw reality for what it was. Or at least what he
thought it was.

As he passed through the rows of cells, one of the patients who was just
then being escorted back into his cell turned and called after him, "For
someone who deals so much in death, you sure are afraid of it!"

The door to James' cell was opened and in stepped Doctor Hurley. While
James was not in a particularly attentive mood, the doctor did his best
to explain to him a recent turn of events. To begin with, James had been
progressing very well. So well, in fact, that an examination was being
arranged to determine if James was cured enough to leave the Asylum. The
examination would consist of James' appearing before a panel of doctors
who would judge his sanity. The exact date of the examination had not
yet been solidified, but Doctor Hurley was certain it would be within a
few days.

As the doctor explained these things to James, he was not sure if the
boy was hearing any of it. But when he finished James showed that he had
not been utterly inattentive by asking if he would still need to take
the doctor's drug. Doctor Hurley replied that James would always need to
take the serum. James was not sure what he thought about this. Most of
his sense of feeling was no longer with him, but what little feeling he
did have told him he was missing something. Missing a part of his heart.
He could hardly feel any pain, but he could hardly feel any good either.

Now such questions only lived short lives in his mind, because now he
also lacked much capacity for questioning. For the first time he found
it easy to follow the prescriptions of others, simply because it was the
path of least resistance. Before the doctor left, James told him that he
would be ready for the examination, and thanked him for his miraculous
elixir.

* * *

As the days passed, more and more advertisements began appearing for
Adelle's performance. But so did advertisements for the upcoming Ball.
And then there appeared advertisements for the return of Jakob Damond's
Toye Shoppe. Each spectacle seemed determined to eclipse the others. The
managers of all things publicity were at their wits end about this. So
much great fanfare was in danger of being wasted through competition.
But after much struggling and beating of heads against walls, the query
gremlins and the merchants and the doctors of all things that rotate
were able to merge the multiple upcoming events by summarizing the
present time as, "The Most Important Days in the History of Marloth!"

Adelle had never worked so hard in her life. Every day she spent
countless hours practicing for her performance. By the time the first
weekend came around, she felt in need of a break. And the weekend
provided. That evening the second part of 'Deminox Farinoi' was being
presented at the Theatre. After dinner Adelle, all her new friends, and
just about everyone else in the City of Orphans flocked to the Theatre.

It was even more spectacular than the first part. In this second
installment, Tralvorkemen rose back to life to continue his scourge upon
the children. But this time he had a much larger scheme; he wanted to
destroy the world. But a noble toymaker appeared on the scene and
rallied the remaining children to fight the crazed undead hunter. After
an epic battle, Tralvorkemen was slain once and for all and the world
was saved.

When it was over there was little else anyone could talk about but the
play. Once again, Adelle left it feeling somewhat disturbed, and yet she
was at the same time fascinated by it and relieved that it had ended
happily.

Instead of taking a carriage to their next destination, the group of
children thought it would be fun to walk. Bobby was with them, something
which made Adelle nearly dizzy from delight. Except that he hardly
acknowledged her. She noticed he talked more to the other girls. Was he
avoiding her? She couldn't tell. Eventually he did speak a few words to
her. She was so startled from of her own thoughts she fumbled what could
have been a graceful answer. Now she felt like an idiot. Why couldn't
she read him? She was good at reading everyone else. It annoyed her that
she didn't know what sort of things he thought about. She especially
wanted to know what he thought about *her*.

She imagined what it would be like if one day Bobby came to her and told
her that he had always had feelings for her but had not known how to
express them. Oh the rapture! Oh, what splendor! Oh what a day! Then
they would go on dates and she would help him learn how to express his
emotions and slowly he would bare more and more of his heart to her. She
would work hard to be patient with him, and not expect too much from him
too quickly.

"What did *you* think of it?" Harris asked her.

Adelle started. "Think of what?" she said, though the words came out too
fast and too loud.

"The play. That *is* what we were all just talking about. Did you like
it?"

"I think I liked it." said Adelle, doing her best to regather her wits.
"It certainly was very captivating. I completely forgot where I was
through most of it. I don't think my mind has completely left the
Theatre yet."

"That's the way it is with all good plays."

"I sometimes wonder about that." said Sandwich. "There's so many
fascinating things outside of the Theatre; why do they always feel dull
right after a play? What if someone were to make a play that, when it
was over, you were eager to leave the Theatre?"

"It's already been done," said Ivy. "They're called flops."

"No! I mean---plays that roll right into the next course, like a meal
rolls right into dessert. A play that inspires people to live their
lives!"

"This play inspires me to slay headmasters; does that count?" asked
Wendy.

"Possibly, but in such an encounter you probably wouldn't be the one
doing the slaying." said Harris.

"Which isn't going to happen one way or the other," said Ivy.
"Tralvorkemen is just a myth."

"Are you certain of that? Some people say there really was an Edward
Tralvorkemen. Some even say that he is still alive, roaming the world
looking for helpless children."

Sandwich shook herself. "Don't say that! Just even the thought of that
monster gives me the creeps!"

"We could take him." said Bobby.

Adelle felt a tinge of guilt, but she didn't know why. "I remember there
being an Edward Tralvorkemen in the stories my mother used to tell me.
While he was an easy person to misunderstand, he was a very good man
that protected children."

"How perverse!" said Wendy. "Dressing up a monster as a nice person?
That's just not right!"

Ivy wanted to say that she had also heard stories like the ones Adelle
spoke of, but decided to hold her tongue.

"If Tralvorkemen is real, then he is evil." said Harris, and then he
turned toward Adelle. "You don't actually believe those stories your
mother told you, do you?"

Adelle hesitated. "No." she finally said. "No, I don't."

"Good." said Harris. "Because if you ever come across anyone calling
himself Edward Tralvorkemen, toss whatever he's offering in his face ...
and run!"

As they walked they passed by a man who was standing on the edge of the
street and looking down at them sadly. As they passed, the man spoke
quietly,

"What happened to the little girl who defended me when no one else
would?"

* * *

The nurse entered James' room. She did not appear as happy as she should
be considering the occasion.

"Today is the day," she said. "The day of your examination. The doctor
asked me to get your prepared for your hearing."

She had all of her regular collection of instruments with her. One of
them was a syringe. The other was a bottle of the doctor's serum which
she used to fill the syringe. She did this very deliberately, as though
with every step she debated whether or not to continue. When she finally
was ready, she further delayed administering the drug and instead made
an attempt at talking with James.

"This is very hard for me," she said. "For a long time I have wrestled
with the rightness of my position. I cannot say that I agree with Doctor
Hurley, or any of the other doctors here for that matter."

James didn't really care one way or the other. He was basking in the
effect of the serum. The nurse sighed.

"Recently there have been several events that have made me question this
place more than ever. Many of them have involved you. And your book. I
have read all of it. It is very disturbing. That poor girl! Could a
little boy truly imagine such horrors? But at the same time I could see
something more. There are echoes in it. I think you were mimicking
something else. Something better."

The nurse bent over James and, with a voice barely over a whisper, said
to him "He's alive! Mr. Tralvorkemen is alive! Or at least, either he is
alive or I am mad, for I have seen him. And not only did I see him, but
he spoke with me. I talked with a man who is supposed to be dead!"

James made no response. Her words did not appear to have any effect on
him.

"You do remember Mr. Tralvorkemen, don't you? He was an integral part of
your life! Don't you remember anything about him?"

James shook his head.

"He was a good man!"

James simply stared at her blankly. She stared back with growing
distress. And then looked at the syringe.

"It's what I feared! This drug ... it's not simply taking away the bad;
it's taking away the good as well!"

She held the syringe away from her as though it were a venomous reptile.
"I can't do this! I can't be a part of this anymore! It is wrong!"
Without further hesitation, she emptied the syringe into the sink. Once
she had finished this and had put the syringe away with the rest of her
instruments, she turned back to James.

"I don't know how much time I have; the men will be here any moment to
take you to the examination. Before you leave, Mr. Tralvorkemen wanted
me to give this to you." She held out a piece of paper to him. "He said
you might need it." James was still too disoriented to pay much
attention to the paper so she placed it inside one of his pockets.

"And one other thing." she added. She reached into her bag and took a
satchel out of it. She showed him what was inside the satchel but he was
still too disconnected to notice its contents. "I'll be honest." she
said. "I wish I could keep it for myself. But he said one day he would
give me one of my own, and for now you should have it." She placed Fugue
inside the satchel, and then she slung the satchel over his shoulder and
strapped it down. "There. Now you are ready for any kind of adventure."

She had barely finished when two orderlies entered the room. The nurse
abruptly straightened and tried her best to act calm and professional.

"Is he ready?" one of them asked the nurse.

"Yes." she said, hoping they did not detect the hesitation in her voice.
The men brought James to his feet and escorted him outside the room, one
on either side. They did not seem to mind the satchel strapped to his
back.

He was led down one corridor after another. Most of them were so dark it
was hard for him to see anything. As he went he could hear a patient
scream, "Don't let the shadows get us! They are everywhere!" and
another, "Burn the book! Burn the book!" and then another cry out "The
End of the World is coming!"

Eventually they arrived at their destination. The orderlies took their
post on either side of a doorway and opened it for James to enter. The
place he stepped into seemed to defy understanding. Maybe it was the
lighting, or the drugs, or the way the lighting played with the drugs,
but James was in an infinite expanse of black with only a dusty beam of
faint light descending some distance ahead of him. Instinctively, he
stumbled to the patch of light and stood in the center of it. He had a
suspicion that the room was quite large, and yet due to the narrowness
of the light, he felt tightly pressed by the blackness on all sides.

As he stood there, his visual awareness of this place slowly expanded.
The first thing he noticed outside of the shaft of light was what might
have been a podium. It was some ways in front of him and a little to his
left. After a little longer he thought he could see a wall of wood on
his left and on his right. It was a low wall, barely taller than his
shoulders.

"Is this the boy named James?" boomed a voice that seemed to come out of
nowhere. James had a suspicion that it had originated from the podium.

"Yes, your honor." cowered a second voice.

"And is it true that we are gathered here to test his sanity?"

"Yes." said the second voice.

"Very well then. We will now proceed with the examination."

The more James stared into the darkness, the more he thought he could
see people just beyond the light. People sitting behind the wall of
wood. And a man coldly looking down at him from above the podium.

"Well, to begin with, our records are a little confusing regarding the
boy in question. It's actually somewhat mysterious. The boy
was here before, but there is no mention of him leaving. Any indication
of his being here simply trails off with no mention of why or how he
left."

The Judge spoke up, sounding angry. "Acquitting a resident is a serious
matter, and should always be recorded with the greatest detail!"

"Yes, your honor. It is a grievous occurrence, indeed! But whatever the
case, he eventually was taken into the orphanage of an Edward
Tralvorkemen, where one of the doctors of this place examined the boy
from time to time."

"Really?" said the Judge. "Is that said doctor present?"

"Yes, your honor. I am here." came a voice. James recognized it as that
of the doctor.

"And is it true that you examined this boy while he was in the
orphanage?"

"Yes, your honor."

"And did you have any idea that he had formerly been a resident of this
establishment?"

"No, your honor. Even now, this is only one of my practices. I am a very
busy man, and do not know half of the patients here."

"And do you have any idea as to how the boy arrived at the orphanage?"
asked the Judge.

"No, your honor. I do not."

"This matter as to the boy's origins is most important if we are to
release him back into the world. I will not allow this establishment's
methods to fall into disarray! I believe it would be expedient to summon
the owner of this said orphanage so that we may question him."

At this the second voice spoke up. "I'm afraid that that will not be
possible, your honor. The owner of the orphanage died nearly a month
ago. He was found dead around the same time that we found the boy
unconscious. The boy had fallen out of a second story window. The other
orphans claim they have no idea what happened."

"I declare, this is growing to be the most peculiar case I ever heard
of!" said the Judge.

"It is most mysterious." the second voice agreed.

"Well, I deem it best that we move on with the examination and return to
this question of the boy's history later." said the Judge. There was a
pause and the sound of shuffling papers. "Exactly what is the summary of
the boy's illness?"

"Over the course of his history here, including both before and after
his disappearance, he has been diagnosed with schizophrenia, chronic
nightmares, masochism, amnesia, violent tendencies with possible sadism,
paranoia, Cotards syndrome, and multiple delusions. Most of these
revolve around a book of fairytales and an inability to distinguish
between dreams and reality. As to the book, it was recently destroyed,
which may have been a trigger to some of his recent symptoms; he was
closely attached to it."

"The little mad boy with his book of fairytales." said the Judge,
ponderously.

"Looking at all of the symptoms at once, it does make one wonder what
we're doing here."

"If the boy can't distinguish between fantasy and reality, then clearly
he doesn't belong outside." said the Judge.

"But he has been cured!" said the doctor.

James could imagine the Judge raising his eyebrows in surprise. "How
so?" the Judge asked.

"With a serum I have been developing over the past several years. With
this serum, I have been able to cure the particular madness of this boy.
He is now sane!"

At this, a great murmuring arose all around them. James was frightened
by the number of voices he heard, all whispering to one another, some
elated, some scoffing, others outraged. By the sound of it, there had to
be dozens of men beyond the edge of the light, all sitting in their
pews, watching him intently, all of them just beyond his view.

After some time, the Judge silenced the gathering and proceeded. "I
think I recall hearing of your experiments. But I was under the
impression that they had all failed with, shall I say, dismal results?"
he asked the doctor.

"I admit, in the past there have been problems, but this boy is a
special case, and since I began administering the drug to him, all of
the delusions have vanished and he has become a normal person! It has to
do with his particular strain of madness. Now I may be able to alter the
serum to work on other patients as well."

"Very well. Despite the bizarre nature of this case, it appears that the
boy may be capable of living a normal life. But first, we must question
him in detail to test if he truly has his wits in full."

All of this time James' vision had been growing clearer and the range of
the light expanding. At this point it had spread far enough to reveal
the Judge and the first row of people. From there the light still
gradually faded into shadow. Now he recognized the doctor amongst the
people. He also saw sitting beside the podium a man with a handful of
papers scattered in front of him. That must be the second man that had
been speaking.

The Judge himself reminded James of Mr. Tralvorkemen, except that the
Judge was far older, almost ancient, and had the battered look of a
general.

"First," said the Judge, looking straight at James, "Tell us in your own
words about this book of yours."

"Its name was Marloth. I don't remember much about it anymore."

"Whenever you speak, boy, address me as Your Honor."

"Yes, your honor."

The Judge nodded. "Do you believe this book was real?"

James looked around him dismally. "No, your honor," he said. "I don't
believe it could have been."

Yet he had no sooner spoken then he saw a monkey dodge in and then out
of the light, smiling at him menacingly. James' eyes, which up to that
point had been slightly groggy, bolted wide open.

"Good." said the Judge. "Would you say that you believed in it before?"

James looked back at the Judge. "I wanted to believe it."

"But not anymore?"

The monkey was followed by several pale looking children, all creeping
along the edge of the light, trying to stay away from the view of the
people.

"Now I want to believe that it *wasn't* real!" said James. He was
beginning to feel dizzy. He closed his eyes and opened them again. All
he could see was the Judge and the people standing in the pews.

"May I remind you to refer to me as *your honor*!" said the Judge.

"Yes, your honor."

The light was still slowly expanding, and by now, James could see the
wall directly behind the Judge.

"Did anyone in your delusions ever go out of their way to keep you from
harm; to preserve your life?"

"No."

"Describe your delusions to the court. What sort of things did you see
during your madness?"

On the wall, there was a large mirror.

"I could see myself." said James.

The Judge didn't seem impressed.

"In a mirror," James hurriedly added. "Except I don't believe the mirror
was really there, your honor. And the reflection of me wouldn't do what
I did."

The reflection waved at James.

"A mirror that didn't mimic you?" said the Judge. "How intriguing. What
sort of things did it do?"

"It waved at me." said James.

The reflection began to dance up and down.

"And it danced up and down." he continued.

"Did it do anything violent?" asked the Judge. "Or anything against the
law?"

"Once it stabbed a picture with a knife." said James. As he said it, he
found himself glaring at the mirror. The reflection only laughed
silently.

"A knife? *Did you have a knife?"*

"No---no, your honor! Sometimes he had things I didn't, and other times,
he only had what I had."

"So are you saying that his possessions varied from yours?"

"Yes, your honor! Right now he doesn't have anything!"

Dead silence. Not even a breath could be heard.

The Judge, after a long and stunned pause, regained his composure. "What
did you just say?" he demanded.

James was horrified. "It-t was a slip of the tongue, your honor! I'm
just a boy! I'm so terribly nervous!" The reflection began to tremble in
mock terror.

The Judge looked straight at James. "You don't see any mirror by any
chance, do you?"

"No!" said James. "I haven't seen it or anything like it since I started
taking the medication!" He could feel the tension twisting up his
insides. He wished he could run from the place. Run from that mirror.
Run from everything. But then he thought about the nurse. Somehow he
felt like he would be betraying her if he did not face what was before
him. Something told him that this was important.

"As you say." said the Judge, not sounding convinced. "What other things
did you see in your madness?"

"I had a long dream that seemed real at the time, but I hardly remember
any of it now."

"What *do* you remember?"

James searched his memory. Everything seemed so far away. "I remember a
girl. Her name was Adelle."

As he spoke, a gust of wind blew through the court, even though no one
seemed to be affected by it. The wind carried a piece of paper which
caught under James' foot. He looked down to find that it was the
tattered picture of the girl. He looked up and saw the reflection in the
mirror wave at him again.

"Is something bothering you?" asked the Judge, a strange expression on
his face.

"No, it's just that---" He looked back at the picture. "It's just that
I---" He looked again at the picture. It wasn't quite as he had
remembered it. For one thing, the girl wasn't smiling anymore. Her eyes
had lost their sparkle. She looked empty. No, worse than empty.
Lifeless. Almost cruel. Such an expression looked so unnatural on her.

"Yes?" said the Judge. "You were saying?"

It was then that the doctor rushed over to James and turned to the
Judge. "Forgive me, your honor, but I fear his medication is running
out! I should have clarified that for the sanity to remain, he will need
to continue to take the serum, though we hope with time that he will be
able to be weaned from it. But for now, if you don't mind, I will
quickly go and administer the drug to him and he should be normal within
minutes." He took hold of James, who at this point was beginning to sway
back and forth, and started to drag the boy away from the center of the
courtroom.

"This is not good." said the Judge. "You should have clarified that fact
in the beginning!"

"Your honor, at least now you can see the distinction between the boy
with and without the drugs, for at the start of the session he was fully
under the effects of the drug and he was perfectly fine."

The Judge did not seem satisfied, but the doctor continued half-guiding,
half-dragging James until they were out of the room. By then, a great
commotion of voices had risen behind them.

The doctor reached into his black bag and pulled out a syringe and a
bottle of the serum.

"It's a good thing I came prepared." said the doctor. "I thought I had
the nurse administer the serum right before the examination, but it
looks like she must have given it much earlier. No problem, I'll have a
talk with her later. Now here, give me your arm."

James backed away. "I don't know if I want it!" he said.

The doctor was astonished. "What? Are you crazy or---*what am I saying?*
Come here and stop playing games!"

"No! Just wait a minute! I need to think!"

"What is there to think about? Things are not going well and the Judge
is growing impatient! Look! I'm giving you the opportunity to start
over; have a new life. Are you going to turn your back on that? Go back
to your cell and stay there 'til you grow old and die?"

"No, but---"

"And there's more! If things don't work out here, they probably won't
allow me to continue giving you the drug!" As the doctor said this, he
filled the syringe with the liquid, and shook it until it was
illuminating the hall with its greenish glow. "That means it will be
back to all of your nightmares! Is that what you want? *A lifetime of
merciless torment?"*

"No! I hate the nightmares! But the kind of life you want me to live; I
don't think that's me! That drug isn't me! You can't cut me off from my
dreams! I wouldn't be *me* anymore. I wouldn't be *anything*."

Somewhere in the distance, James swore he could hear a girl scream. Not
a scream for help. Not a scream of pain. It was a scream of helpless
surrender.

"She needs me!" James exclaimed. "I can't stay here! I've got to find
her!"

The doctor looked at James with cold resolve. "The madness has you! It's
too late to reason with you: you're past reason!" The doctor thought for
a moment and then suddenly sprang to life. He lunged forward and took
hold of James' arm with one hand, the loaded syringe poised in the
other.

"No!" James shouted. "Let go of me!"

The doctor ignored him and sunk the needle into the boy's skin. "You'll
thank me in a minute!" he said.

But before he could finish, James swung at the syringe with his free
hand. He hit it with such force that it shattered, sending glowing green
liquid all over the doctor. The doctor let go of James and fell
backwards, stunned. James stood there for a moment, nearly as stunned as
the doctor. He looked at his arm. The needle was still lodged inside. He
quickly yanked it out and threw it from him as though it were a viper
that had sunk its fangs into his veins.

By then the commotion from inside the courtroom had grown quite loud,
and there were people calling to see if the doctor and the little mad
boy would be coming back soon.

"Well that does it, boy!" the doctor growled. "There's no way you're
going to pass the examination now!" He managed to get to his feet and
began to stagger away. "Your madness can take you for all I care! I've
done so much for you, gone so out of my way to help you, but it means
nothing, doesn't it? Well, I've done my duty, probably more than Edward
would have done himself." He paused to grab his bag and continued on
down the hall. "I'll look forward to seeing you tomorrow morning,
cowering in your little cell again, moaning about all of the nasty
things your dreams are doing to you!"

James watched him go and then turned back to the courtroom. He had no
idea what he was doing. All he knew was that he was walking back into
the room, and there was a new resolve to his stride.

The voices quickly died down as he stepped into the middle of the room.
By now the light covered the entire room, and he could see the rest of
the rows of people and the walls behind them. Suddenly, the room looked
far smaller than it had before.

"What was that shouting back there about?" the Judge demanded. "Where is
the doctor? What is going on?"

"I'm leaving." said James. "I'm going to find Adelle. She is in danger,
and I may already be too late."

The Judge almost looked amused. "I'm sorry, little boy, but you aren't
going anywhere unless I say so, and I don't appear to be in the saying
mood."

James was nonplussed. "I am *going* to rescue Adelle," he said, "and
anyone who gets in my way will either wish they were dead, or wish they
were still alive." The audience gasped. The subject was definitely
suggesting violent tendencies. The Judge, however, looked as calm as
James. He leaned over the edge of the podium and examined him coolly.
Men began to enter through the two doorways and cut off any possible
exits.

"Will you now? And all because of a girl?"

"Not just for her! Because it's all true! It has to be!"

"And what about this drug of Doctor Hurley's? Without the drug your
nightmares will eventually find you."

"They will find me," said James, "because I'm running straight toward
them."

One of the men called out something about the only place James running
toward being a padded cell.

"If you had read Marloth you would know that's not what's going to
happen."

The Judge suddenly spoke up, contempt dripping from his voice.

"And exactly what *is* Marloth?" he demanded.

James turned and looked the Judge in the eye. Any hint of fear and doubt
was gone. Now all that remained on James' countenance was determined
resolve.

"*This* is Marloth." said James. "We're in It."

The Judge began to shout. Everyone began to shout. The insane began to
shout from their myriad of quarters deep within the Asylum. The door
through which James had entered burst open and dozens more men burst
into the room, some of them carrying clubs, all of them heading for
James. Somehow, the book was dashed against the podium, showering the
room with papers. Several of the men drew knives and pistols. A window
was shattered. Wind swept through the place like a haunted spirit.

James leapt into the air and landed within the rows of officials. They
were far too disoriented to grab him. Running across the benches, he
suddenly shifted direction and charged straight for the wall of men
pursuing him. Just before he reached them, he ducked down and slid under
their legs, arriving back in the middle of the room. By this point
several people had stood up from the benches on the other side and were
trying to box him in. He jumped to his feet with only a moment's pause
to gather his wits in the rapidly changing circumstances. Deciding fast,
he turned to the podium and slammed all of his weight against it. There
was the sound of nails being ripped from board as the podium's
foundation was torn from the floor. It shook threateningly for a moment,
and then crashed into the midst of the pursuers. Leaping atop of it, he
ran its length and threw himself into the air, passing over the crowd
and landing in a roll directly in front of the main doorway.

Within moments, he was out of the courtroom and racing down the
corridor. He could hear shouting not far behind him and knew they were
close. He hurried down the corridor and turned a corner. The entrance to
the Asylum stood before him. He sprinted forward, took hold of the large
double doors, and pushed with all his might. The doors opened and red
light flooded the hall. For a moment, he was nearly blinded.

The city stood sprawling around him, the streets filled with so many
people they looked more like canals then streets. The steps of the
Asylum entrance rose high above the street, high enough for him to see
the buildings stretching on and on in the distance before him. For a
moment, he suddenly remembered sitting with the other children atop of
the orphanage, watching the sun set over that same city.

But he did not have much time to enjoy the thought. He could hear the
Asylum officials flooding out of the stairway and rushing down the hall.
Quickly, he descended the steps and dropped down into the teeming
masses. No one seemed to notice him. All of their effort was bent just
trying to keep moving forward past everybody else.

He looked back to see several of the officials emerge from within the
Asylum and look about the sea of people in bewilderment. But despite the
fact that he was a good several feet below the top of the crowd, they
somehow managed to spot him and immediately set out in pursuit through
the sea of people.

Navigating blindly, James pushed his way down one street after another,
unsure as to whether he was losing them or if they were a mere step
behind. After a time, he found himself next to a lamppost, and decided
to climb it so he could collect his bearings. Like a jungle animal
climbing through the canopy, his head popped out over the crowd and
looked about him. As it turned out, he was at a junction where the
streets went off in all directions. In one direction, he could make out
the top of the looming Asylum. Two of the other directions had no
indication of where they might lead. But in the fourth direction he
could see a large sign hanging high above the crowds that read,
"Journeyman Train Station."

Suddenly he heard a loud ruckus overhead and looked up to see a monkey
directly above him! The creature was likewise holding onto the lamppost
and was screeching and pointing down at him.

"There he is!" he heard someone shout. Turning about, James spotted the
officials, one of them pointing at the lamppost he was on. Quickly,
James dropped back into the crowds and made his way toward the train
station. This time he was more certain as to their position, for he
could hear the commotion of people being shoved aside and random curses
following in his wake.

As he drew nearer the train station, the crowds thinned out, so that by
the time he reached the main gates, there was no one immediately around
except for the steward. James could see the train just behind the gates,
and it looked like it was about to embark.

"Next stop, the City of Orphans!" he heard a raspy voice shout. That
must be the conductor, thought James.

"Ticket, please." said the steward, grabbing James as he attempted to
rush through the gate. James tried to resist but was surprised at how
strong the man was.

"But I don't have a ticket!" said James.

"Then you'll need to go back and purchase one." said the steward.

James looked back. The officials hadn't yet burst from the crowd, but he
knew they would any moment.

"I don't have time!" he said, and then suddenly he remembered something.
Reaching into his pocket, he found the piece of paper the nurse had
handed him. Taking it out, he found it to be a train ticket.

"Here!" said James.

The officials burst from the crowd and rushed toward them, just as James
slipped through the gate. The officials tried to follow after him, but
the steward forcefully held them back.

"Tickets, please." said the steward.

By the time James reached the boarding platform, the train had already
lurched forward and was gradually gaining momentum. Running along the
tracks, he threw himself into the air and caught onto the railing,
pulling himself into the train.

And so it was that James set off for the City of Orphans, leaving sanity
far behind him.
