---
title: Family Wonderland
alias: Family Wonderland
---
# Family Wonderland

There is an inherent conflict between family and [[01KWN86X6NJZMP5ZESZTNDXXXN]].

Family needs stability and routine.  [[01KWN86X6NJZMP5ZESZTNDXXXN]] is essentially unstable and mercurial.

Family is based on commitment.  [[01KWN86X6NJZMP5ZESZTNDXXXN]] is based on freedom.

> 💡 One of the primary keys to resolving this conflict may be [[01KWN86X6MFZQAJ1V36T9592EF]].

# Wonderland

[[01KWN86X6NJZMP5ZESZTNDXXXN]] 

# Conflicts

| Wonderland | Family | Severity |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [[01KWN86X6MFZQAJ1V36T9592D3]]  | Safety | 3 |
| [[01KWN86X6MFZQAJ1V36T9592D6]]  | Commitment, Work | 3 |
| [[01KWN86X6MFZQAJ1V36T9592DG]]  | Stability | 3 |
| [[01KWN86X6MFZQAJ1V36T9592DD]]  | Routine | 2 |
| [[01KWN86X6MFZQAJ1V36T959298]]  | Stability | 2 |
| [[01KWN86X6NJZMP5ZESZTNDXXWG]]  | Community | 1 |

> 💡 Routine conflicts with temporal continuity because routine tasks do not lend themselves well to storytelling and are usually time compressed out of the storytelling, which requires longer passages of time.
> In other words, the more routine there is in a setting, the more time needs to be skipped in order to reach notable events in the storyline.

## Wonderland features that don’t particularly conflict with family

- [[01KWN86X6MFZQAJ1V36T9592JN]]
- [[01KWN86X6MFZQAJ1V36T9592DA]]
- [[01KWN86X6MFZQAJ1V36T9592D9]]
- [[01KWN86X6MFZQAJ1V36T9592DK]] (Sort of conflicts with structure and uniform, but it’s a trivial conflict.)

# Responsibility

Responsibility is the greatest challenge facing Family Wonderland.

[[01KWN86X6MFZQAJ1V36T9592F6]]

# Exceptional circumstances

All of the tensions could be resolved if I just fell back on exceptional circumstances.

But I don’t want to do that, especially when depicting marriage.  [[01KWN86X6NJZMP5ZESZTNDXXWW]].

# Adventure vs Safety

## Parenthood

[[01KWN86X6MFZQAJ1V36T9592F0]]

## Marriage

A husband and wife with no dependents is more free to take risks.

However, a husband still has a responsibility to protect his wife.

While some Christians may argue against that point for missionary work, I just don’t see a Biblical precedent for that.

In all the cases of missionaries going out on limbs in the Bible are the dependents.

# Free agents vs. Commitment

## Father/husband responsibilities

It is the responsibility of a husband/father to:

1. Provide for his wife and children
2. Protect his family
3. Lead his family
4. Be involved in the lives of his family

## Mother/wife responsibilities

It is the responsibility of a mother/wife to:

1. Support her husband
2. Raise the children
3. Manage the home

> 💡 All father responsibilities for dependents falls on the mother if the father dies.

# Family provision

Fathers/husbands must provide for their families.

Unless a father/husband is independently wealthy, he needs to work in order to earn that provision.

Providing for a family takes a significant amount of a father/husband’s time.

# Stability

An important aspect of family provision is a stable environment for the children to grow up in.

> 💡 I have never heard people speak fondly of having to regularly move as a child.

## Community

Part of the reason stability is important for children is “It takes a village to raise a child.”

Children need a good community to fully flourish.

It takes time for connections to be established between a family and a community.

The connections are a part of a family’s roots.

The connections need to be re-established any time the family is uprooted.
