---
title: Don’t focus on James’ job
alias: Don’t focus on James’ job
---
# Don’t focus on James’ job

> 💡 Relates to [[18e58e628ba28079a2d5cc1131ce4379]].

# Responsibility

The primary motivation for James to have a job is responsibility.  I want James to be responsible.

I’m not giving James a job because I want to write all about a job.

# Idolatry

If anything, from day one of the job direction, I have been subconsciously hesitant to go all-out with it.

The reason is I’m afraid of idolizing the job.  People—especially men—have a tendency to find their identity in their job.

Now, there is a part of job identity that is natural and healthy.  People take on different roles and those roles partially define them.

# Two ditches

This whole job topic is a narrow road with a ditch on either side.

On one side are two related states: laziness and apathy.

## Laziness

Laziness is when a person capable of working doesn’t have a job or isn’t trying hard enough to get a job, or isn’t working enough to provide a significant income.

## Apathy

Apathy is when someone has a decently paying job, but is only putting in enough effort to get by.  They aren’t really trying to serve and bless others through their work.

## Serving both family and non-family

A part of responsibility is taking on undesirable jobs, but there’s a fine line between doing whatever is needed to be done for the greater good, and a mercenary mentality of simply taking a job for the pay.

In other words, a job isn’t simply about providing for a family, it’s about service through the job, and too often disinterest in the job goes hand-in-hand with apathy.

It’s not enough for a man to care about his family, he should also care about the people he is being paid to serve, and care about the details of the service he is providing.

## Obsession

On the other side of the ditch are people who live for their work and idolize it.

# Healthy balance

> Whatever you do, work heartily, as for the Lord and not for men, knowing that from the Lord you will receive the inheritance as your reward. You are serving the Lord Christ. - Colossians 3:23-24

Note that based on the context, the passage doesn’t mean don’t serve men, but don’t work for their reward.

> For though I am free from all, I have made myself a servant to all, that I might win more of them. To the Jews I became as a Jew, in order to win Jews. To those under the law I became as one under the law (though not being myself under the law) that I might win those under the law. - 1 Corinthians 9:18-20

> 💡 Whatever is worth doing is worth doing well.
