---
title: Iconic
notion_id: 10158e628ba280648510f4544487aab5
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/Features/Iconic 10158e628ba280648510f4544487aab5.md
alias: Iconic
created_at: 2024-09-14T04:56:00.000Z
modified_at: 2026-05-10T18:00:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Iconic-10158e628ba280648510f4544487aab5
notion_archived: false
---
# Iconic

> “I should be able to pause your videos at any frame and be able to turn that frame into a poster.” - Professor Warren Carter to his students

I want Marloth narratives to be heavily comprised of scenes which naturally translate into classic images.

Scenes that inspire people to make their own artistic renditions and interpretations.

Scenes that are visually memorable and evocative with hardly any description.

> 💡 One of my favorite examples of this from the [A Child’s Fairytale World](../Data/Products/A%20Child%E2%80%99s%20Fairytale%20World%20c368a02eabb74a47ab322615f2769723.md) is [Adelle arrives at the City of Orphans](../Scenes/Adelle%20arrives%20at%20the%20City%20of%20Orphans%202ba58e628ba2801cb1dbcfce8fa39cfe.md), where Adelle’s bed has settled in the middle of the City and the assortment of creatures watch her sleep in the dead of night.
> Another my favorite scenes (in which I explicitly used prose as though I was painting a picture) is [Tralvorkemen returns](../Scenes/Tralvorkemen%20returns%202bb58e628ba280a29be3c3aa3aa07407.md).

# The right frame of mind

How to accomplish that is a little nebulous, but I have found that simply thinking in these terms and shooting for that direction has enabled me to achieve this feature more frequently.

I think part of the technique is to not get too focused on the details, but to squint and arrange the scene along the subliminal plane.

# Refined context

Another key part of this feature is context.  Carefully crafting the context for each scene so that there is no fluff but only rich elements with harmonious interplay.

Composition over logistics.  (There’s nothing wrong with logistics, it’s just not my style.)

# Distinct personality

Another key part to this feature is personality.

Give each scene its own distinct personality.

Doing so isn’t really practical, but it is an exercise worth exploring with each scene.

# Clear emotional composition

Another ingredient is having clear emotional composition.  Muddy emotional state weakens how iconic a scene can be.  This isn’t the same as conflict—conflicting emotions can be great.

It’s the same technical challenge that professional graphic artists and audio engineers have to learn: a little blur and reverb can help in the right places, but too much can hurt a mix.
