---
title: Playing with fire
notion_id: 11158e628ba280edaca1d0d5cfd07cc2
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/Features/Playing with fire 11158e628ba280edaca1d0d5cfd07cc2.md
alias: Playing with fire
created_at: 2024-09-30T02:00:00.000Z
modified_at: 2026-05-17T01:31:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Playing-with-fire-11158e628ba280edaca1d0d5cfd07cc2
notion_archived: false
---
# Playing with fire

# Overview

This trope is about Characters trying to harness forces beyond their comprehension and getting in over their heads.

# Conclusion

The moral should be “use wisdom when pursuing a venture”, not “some doors should never be opened.”

If someone shouldn’t do something, it is because that action is wicked.

> 💡 This trope is not about someone sinning and thinking they can get away with it.

# Trite

> 💡 The rest of this page is my notes work toward that conclusion.

In a way, this is a feature I’m not thrilled about employing.

It is so overdone and so easily trite.

Yet it is a real danger, and it would be weird and awkward if I tried to avoid it.

It’s like vanilla ice cream.  It’s simple and common, yet it is still effective.

# Enhancement

So why is it that a feature which is so natural and inherent to the subject matter I am pursuing feels so trite?

First off, by trite, I mean it is a judgement that is easy for people to make, even when they are being hypocritical.

I live in an age where people worship science, yet they are quick to throw scientists under the bus when it comes to science fiction movies.

# Proper implications

The key is having the right implications.

If a course of action is wicked, then people should never pursue it.

But if a course of action is simply dangerous, people should not pursue it unless they are properly prepared.

Driving down the street is dangerous, but layers upon layers of precautions and safety measures have been established to mitigate the danger.

The real triteness is when writers imply, “No one should have ever opened that door”.

One common mistake that makes this trope trite is when writers think humans are more powerful than they are.  Humans are powerful enough to unleash massive catastrophes and doom their species.

This trope doesn’t always go to that extreme, but it tempts writers to escalate in that direction.
