---
title: Wildly evolving plot
notion_id: 13458e628ba2800e97eddf6246e412a0
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/Data/Restrictions/Wildly evolving plot 13458e628ba2800e97eddf6246e412a0.md
alias: Wildly evolving plot
created_at: 2024-11-04T05:48:00.000Z
modified_at: 2025-04-19T15:55:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Wildly-evolving-plot-13458e628ba2800e97eddf6246e412a0
notion_archived: false
---
# Wildly evolving plot

# Overview

There’s a storytelling style I’ve always been fascinated with, where a story methodically evolves from one state to the next, and before long, it looks nothing like what it did or where it was going before.

When done poorly, this can leave the audience behind.

When done well, it can be a lot of fun and increase the dynamic range of the narrative.

> 💡 This is an essential feature of [Wonderland](./3cbc40d2ba2a4c76b4b9dc370452fcfe.md).

# Keeping promises

One of my rules of story writing is:

> Make the audience want some thing, and then give it to them.

The trick with this feature is to implement it without violating the above rule.

Potentially, a winding plot can rely on sequences of carrots, as long as the audience is periodically given previous carrots as new carrots are dangled.

# Flow

Another requirement for this feature is the twists and turns need to flow.

The flow can either be concrete, relying on logical plot flow, or it can be abstract, relying on more poetic flow.

> 💡 The latter transitions are similar to a stream of consciousness.

> 💡 Contrast [Alice in Wonderland](./ca98e0e27dff4b77adff51cfedaca5ce.md) with “Through the Looking Glass”.  Most of the first book has a surreal flow, while the transitions of the second book are jarring and completely random.

# Awe of progression

Similar to the feeling in [Dark Souls](./4126541b1c124056b5dff756778cdba2.md) where the player reaches a location and can see a previous location far in the distance, there can be a certain sense of awe in how far the story has traveled.

> 💡 That’s similar to an episode in Season 5 of Angel, where the characters temporarily revert back to earlier personalities.  Joss Whedon wanted to show the contrast of how far the characters have grown since they were first introduced.

# Injected stability

This idea conflicts with stability, and will need to rely on [Injected stability](./54190f7026bf4beb96bc5ef39de248ee.md) to keep this in harmony with stability.

# Parallels in music

Much music follows particular grooves or alternate between contrasting motiffs, but there are some composers that tend to compose pieces that transform from one state to another and are practically multiple songs.

A few of my favorite musicians who lean toward such a dynamism are:

1. Leah
2. mind.in.a.box
