---
title: Design - Reinventing the haunted house
notion_id: 13558e628ba28092adf2c3a987c46c9a
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/Articles/Ideas/Haunted home/Design - Reinventing the haunted house 13558e628ba28092adf2c3a987c46c9a.md
alias: Design - Reinventing the haunted house
created_at: 2024-11-05T07:06:00.000Z
modified_at: 2025-03-11T06:39:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Design-Reinventing-the-haunted-house-13558e628ba28092adf2c3a987c46c9a
notion_archived: false
---
# Design - Reinventing the haunted house

# Overview

This is a child of [Haunted home](./41c6d83c86fa4b548719f12e6926f344.md).

# Key properties

The main properties of haunted houses I want to carry over are forces that are:

1. Supernatural
2. Malevolent
3. Need living humans for some end
4. Tethered to a house
5. Ensnare people so they cannot leave the house

# Ghosts

In Marloth, ghosts are not dead spirits but are the manifestation of obsessive sins.

[Reinventing ghosts](./13558e628ba280b5aad2e5f874a6af0b.md)

Perhaps I can leverage this in a haunted house.

Tying that form of ghosts to ancestry, what if there were generations of idolatry culminating in a massive, crowded force?

# Marital troubles

Alternatively, I’ve considered having the haunting revolve around marital problems, acting as a test of their love and faithfulness.

I can think of one or two ways to mix that with ancestry, but I don’t know that it’s the best mix.

> 💡 In a pinch, I feel like this is one of the few solid means I have of raising marital challenges in this narrative

# Temptation

Temptation should be a central aspect of the haunting.

Temptation is closely tied to [Haunted home - Imprisonment and siege](./1ae58e628ba2800da8daef03aca2741d.md).  The haunting is a battle of endurance.

This is it.  This is the pivotal distinction I have been looking for from traditional haunting stories.

This haunting is a battle of wills.

> 💡 [Distinguishing TWOLD haunted home from possession storylines](./1ae58e628ba280489633c20f30ef80c5.md)

# Sapphire and Steel

This take on a haunted home is one of the best opportunities I’ve found to leverage [Sapphire and Steel](./f4522f813fe047fe9cc7daef159bed6d.md) within TWOLD.

Not only is the haunting a battle of wills, but it is also a battle of wits.  James and Adelle have to experiment, observe, analyze, and strategize in order to prevail.

Both the heroes and the malevolent entity or entities will need to be methodical.

# Malevolent entity Quantity

Should there be:

1. A single malevolent entity,
2. Many,
3. Or should I obfuscate and make it unclear whether there is one or more?

# Not ghosts

The malevolent entity or entities should not be ghosts.  They should be more Lovecraftian—entities from another dimension trying to break into our world.

> 💡 I’m drawing heavy inspiration from [Sapphire and Steel](./f4522f813fe047fe9cc7daef159bed6d.md) here.

# Ancestry

One archived idea I had was [Haunted home - Ancestry](./1ae58e628ba280da87dbf51b4060f1f1.md).

# Cursed house

Instead of saying the house is haunted, I like the idea of the surrounding inhabitants saying it is *cursed*.

# Isolation

I’m struggling with just having the story be about James and Adelle, yet at the same time I don’t want to crowd this part with characters.  I want to focus on the two characters.

However, when things get that minimal, it usually works better if the story is down to a single main character.  Then it can go full Alice in Wonderland.

Two characters has a little bit the weaknesses of both and the strengths of neither.
