---
title: Forest visitors
notion_id: 13658e628ba280d28d8fe2cfdc1e98fc
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/TWOLD Plot/Arcs/Forest arc/Forest visitors 13658e628ba280d28d8fe2cfdc1e98fc.md
alias: Forest visitors
created_at: 2024-11-06T17:23:00.000Z
modified_at: 2024-11-06T17:25:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Forest-visitors-13658e628ba280d28d8fe2cfdc1e98fc
notion_archived: false
---
# Forest visitors

# Overview

This page explores a possible storyline of having the main characters be visitors to a forest, as opposed to natives.

The main characters will probably not be natives, the main question is how much should they be treated as outsiders.



# Benefits of using visitors

Maybe this is an extension of my being a city boy, (though most of my influences seem to have this as well), but I prefer the main characters of the dark forest story to be visitors.  There is an added mystery when the setting is foreign for the protagonist.

# Folktales

That is a very different story from a forest native having surprising events happening around them.

In that respect, the visitor direction is a little less folklore, because folklore is usually about natives providing supernatural explanations for happenings around their village.

In classic European fairy tales, main characters are rarely travelers who discover adventure in distant lands.  Instead, they are usually ordinary people who find themselves in magical predicaments within the neighborhood they grew up in.

# Modern dark forest tropes

However, in more recent storytelling, particularly in film and games, it is a common trope for a foreigner to arrive in some Germanic wood populated by superstitious commoners.  The customs and beliefs of the locals are largely new to the main characters.

> 💡 Usually there is also a castle at the far end of the forest but I am less interested in that.

# James as a visitor

So I’m leaning toward a non-visitor heavy storyline.  However, that conflicts a little with my vision of [[6727adbe03684285aa4dc60e14a5d229]].

But I think that can still work as long as I have two layers.

The lower layer would be foundational and more stable, relying on longevity features.

The upper layer would be a temporal one-off.  I would also try to make that layer thinner.

The main test would be whether the bulk of the setting and features could be easily revisited in a later storyline.
