---
title: Jane Austen countryside
alias: Jane Austen countryside
---
# Overview

All this time I’ve been hung up on trying to make a Germanic [[181a3aae0f4b4056b6c28bb49e27978e]], and it just hasn’t been aligning with my larger vision.

Why am I not using a Jane Austen countryside setting?

# Motivation

As is, it’s not exactly what I’m looking for, but it is the perfect foundation.

It checks all of the boxes:

1. Seamless mixing of nature and civilization ([[3d0cdc7ba1a0457aa628b8f2a616e8f8]]).
2. Fits the Victorian bent of Marloth, particularly socially.
3. Aligns with one of my most respected inspirations ([Pride and Prejudice](./13758e628ba2807798bbc04ae550da36.md))
4. It’s a setting I’m actually more familiar with.

# One or two countrysides?

[One or two countrysides?](./13858e628ba280afaeabd7d7b3b6e796.md)

# Composition

## Dark countryside

I only need an English countryside as a foundation.  I can still mix plenty of other elements into it.

In particular, I can make it more Gothic, and have more folklore.

> 💡 I do NOT want “Pride and Prejudice and Zombies”.

## American East Coast

After recently visiting the New York countryside for my brother-in-law’s wedding, I realize that a lot of what I love about the European countryside exists in Eastern America as well, particularly the Fall Halloween vibe (I was visiting in October).

I could also mix some of that with the Jane Austen.

After all, that’s the setting of many Gothic authors such as Lovecraft, Hawthorne, and Poe.

> 💡 Seeing the New York countryside, it strikes me that part of the reason I’ve gravitated to older settings I’ve only experienced through books and movies, is the places I’ve lived really haven’t had the ambiance that some current locations have.
> Marloth might be more modern and less Victorian if I had grown up somewhere else.

