---
title: Chaotic world
notion_id: 15258e628ba2805abd70e0c63f03c571
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/Features/Chaotic world 15258e628ba2805abd70e0c63f03c571.md
alias: Chaotic world
created_at: 2024-12-04T03:40:00.000Z
modified_at: 2026-02-25T04:34:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Chaotic-world-15258e628ba2805abd70e0c63f03c571
notion_archived: false
---
# Chaotic world

# Injected stability

In trying to implement [Injected stability](Injected%20stability%2054190f7026bf4beb96bc5ef39de248ee.md), I keep missing an important ingredient—the world needs to be chaotic.  Not simply disorganized chaos, but in constant flux.  Flux that makes people and circumstances unreliable and paralyzes productivity.

I keep missing this because there is little precedent for it.  I’m shooting for [Wonderland](../Articles/Wonderland%203cbc40d2ba2a4c76b4b9dc370452fcfe.md), and Wonderland usually involves stationary actors.  Normally it’s the protagonist and the protagonists storyline that is chaotic, ushering them from scene to scene like a theme park ride.

# Finding inspiration

At the time of this writing, not a single one of my listed inspirations exhibit this feature—the craziest cases still have relatively static worlds.

I’m sure I’ve seen some storyline like this somewhere.

- The NeverEnding Story
    
    > 💡 The *NeverEnding Story* describes a world that is gradually disappearing, but it’s not a chaos that its inhabitants need to adapt to.  One moment a neighborhood is the same way it has been for an eternity, and suddenly it’s just gone, including everyone who was in that neighborhood.
>     Note: I strongly dislike *The NeverEnding Story*.
>     What I’m looking for is a neighborhood that is constantly changing, populated by inhabitants that are shell-shocked from trying to keep up.
    

# Post-apocalypse

In some respects, what I’m envisioning is a post-apocalyptic world where, instead of nuclear fallout or zombies, the world is devastated by extreme weirdness.

# Crazy weird

The extreme weirdness would effectively be the [Manic energy](Manic%20energy%2031db79f67d82432ca15cc17bbffb2bfd.md) I’ve been wanting to add to the mix.

This chaotic world scenario could be a plot device that provides a continual justification for [Manic energy](Manic%20energy%2031db79f67d82432ca15cc17bbffb2bfd.md).

# Chaos, evil, and cozy horror

Perhaps I can mix the chaos with the dangerous evils of the world I’ve been working toward.

If I did that, this chaotic angle could harmonize with the [Cozy horror](Cozy%20horror%20e5cc80dc61ed4c629951cdf472b20b7a.md).

# Judgement

This can be a minor theme, but it would be nice to hint in places that the chaotic state of the world is the inhabitants fault.

Some of the causality could be from the past, where people previously caused some of the chaos.

Some of the causality could be immediate, where the audience witnesses people unwittingly increasing the chaos upon themselves.

# Magic madness

Potentially, I can also mix this with [Magic mind screw](../Solutions/Magic%20mind%20screw%20dad039f3ec6e4d19a8116d5511ed396d.md).

Heavy use of magic could be one of the main causes of the chaos.

The environmental chaos could mix with personal madness and blur the lines between the two.

# The Empire

The Empire and the Nameless City could be a haven from the chaos, since it has banned magic.

Maybe the the book could end with the City finally embracing magic and opening the floodgates.

I could use that to tie the Nameless City back to the City of Orphans with the [Tale of two cities](../Solutions/Tale%20of%20two%20cities%204ad86022c46e49e9843a4c05ab0d3bcd.md) arc (the City of Orphans actually being the Nameless City *after* the cataclysm.)

## Missile

Maybe the Nameless City builds a missile with a payload the scale of a nuclear bomb, with the plan of hitting the City of Orphans with it.

The heroes are informed of the plan and set out to stop it.

They fail to stop the launch, but the missile implodes in place.

The Nameless City is engulfed in magical chaos.

The heroes eventually discover that the only way the lead scientist knew to make a missile of that scale was to harness magic.

The magic backfired and turned on its masters.

It’s double irony.

1. The first city meant to attack the second city yet hurt itself instead.
2. The first city is actually the second city, and caused itself to become the second city—to become everything it loathes.
