---
title: Wartime mentality
notion_id: 15758e628ba2801e9578f5e1fc90b450
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/Articles/Article archive/Wartime mentality 15758e628ba2801e9578f5e1fc90b450.md
alias: Wartime mentality
created_at: 2024-12-09T05:54:00.000Z
modified_at: 2025-11-15T20:36:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Wartime-mentality-15758e628ba2801e9578f5e1fc90b450
notion_archived: false
---
# Wartime mentality

# Background

The book “Don’t Waste your Life” by John Piper was very influential in my life.

It encouraged me to cultivate a deeper pursuit of the Lord.

However, as I have grown older, there is one aspect of that book I don’t completely agree with, and that’s it’s idea of a wartime mentality.

Wartime mentality is the idea that during war, people are forced to optimize everyday life in pursuit of a single driving goal.  The human life is stripped down to the pursuit of survival and ultimate victory.

Piper exhorts Christians to take on a similar mentality in their daily life and pursuit of Christ.

Within context, the idea of wartime mentality is good, but it is a counter-balancing idea.

Left by itself, the idea is imbalanced.

And wartime mentality is not simply a John Piper idea.  Non-Christians employ it as well, often to far greater extremes.

# Millennial narcissism

I have seen wartime mentality abused, especially when mixed with millennialism.

[[27b58e628ba280a197c6db3ebf0cf0d7]] 

The problem is the wartime analogy can only be stretched so far.  Us citizens are not actually in the middle of a war right now.

We cannot live our lives as though we are in the middle of World War III.

# Quality of life

I am living in a time and place consumed by comfort and convenience.

A wartime mentality is a healthy counter-balance to that.

However, there is a sublime and essential human value to Quality of Life.

A part of quality of life is personal, and a part of it is kindness to others.

# Tending to the Earth

> 💡 I was thinking out loud when I wrote this and it was more of a draft idea that never panned out.

There is a tension in the now and not yet.

This is a fallen world, but it still is the remnant of Eden.

One of mankind’s original duties was to tend the garden of Earth.

After the children of Israel were punished and sent into exile, they immediately wanted to return to their homeland.

However, God told them to settle down in Babylon because they wouldn’t be returning to the promised land any time soon.  [[192028b3a6cc45708e199ece1d197241]].

- [ ]  Tie off this point
