---
title: Dark forest
notion_id: 181a3aae0f4b4056b6c28bb49e27978e
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/Features/Dark forest 181a3aae0f4b4056b6c28bb49e27978e.md
alias: Dark forest
created_at: 2024-06-22T17:21:00.000Z
modified_at: 2026-02-25T04:34:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Dark-forest-181a3aae0f4b4056b6c28bb49e27978e
notion_archived: false
---
# Dark forest

# Contents

# Background

For years, I’ve been wanting to capture the essence of a forest setting in both narrative and game form, and have struggled in both media.

In particular, I’m mainly interested in a dark, inhospitable forest.  People live in or near the forest

# Motivation

[Motivation for a Dark Forest](Dark%20forest/Motivation%20for%20a%20Dark%20Forest%2021758e628ba2803282ecd138a31e91b6.md)

# Concept art gallery

[Dark forest concept art](Dark%20forest/Dark%20forest%20concept%20art%2025058e628ba28032a82bc651636561c7.md)

# Experience

I’m a city boy.  I have little experience living in the country.

The first book largely took place in urban settings.  The few scenes that took place away from civilization were usually vague, underdeveloped locations.

# Features

[Forest features](Dark%20forest/Forest%20features%201585dbab3aa04741ab71e27ff3c401ec.md)

# Dangers

Part of the coziness is having dangers outside.  Roaming monsters and malicious supernatural entities.

- Beasts
- Witches
- Fairies / Fey
- Curses and enchantments
- Magical traps
- Shades
- Spirits / wraiths
- Lovecraftian horrors
- The undead
- Sapient trees
- Bad weather
- Bogs
- Lightning
- Foggy cliffs

# Mystery

There is something mysterious about a dark forest.  The trees and overgrowth obscures and hides things.  The twisting, organic landscape makes navigation more difficult and increases the potential for people getting turned around or missing key sections of land.

A dense forest feels alive, and is alive, even when nothing is moving.

# Inspirations

[Untitled](Dark%20forest/Untitled%208e5b2d07b578469b920dd01f7335f9e0.csv)

# Witcher inspiration

[Extracting dark forest qualities from The Witcher](Dark%20forest/Extracting%20dark%20forest%20qualities%20from%20The%20Witcher%2022e58e628ba280a492abc11c35bcb587.md)

# As visitors

[Forest visitors](../TWOLD%20Plot/Arcs/Forest%20arc/Forest%20visitors%2013658e628ba280d28d8fe2cfdc1e98fc.md)
