---
title: Haunted home arc
notion_id: 18b58e628ba2802392a4c64cb397b0c8
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/TWOLD Plot/Arcs/Haunted home arc 18b58e628ba2802392a4c64cb397b0c8.md
alias: Haunted home arc
created_at: 2025-01-30T07:21:00.000Z
modified_at: 2025-06-19T08:00:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Haunted-home-arc-18b58e628ba2802392a4c64cb397b0c8
notion_archived: false
---
# Haunted home arc

[Haunted home](./41c6d83c86fa4b548719f12e6926f344.md) 

While the initial inspiration of this arc was horror movies, that is not a lasting inspiration, and if that was the only inspiration then I would have dropped it for good.

However, the nearest real-world parallel to that scenario is marital trials.

For James and Adelle, this would be the lowest valley of TWOLD.

Marital trials will be the driving focus of this arc.  Any haunting elements will only exist to support that.

# Personal experience

Kellie and I have had a relatively smooth marriage.

For us, the most difficult times haven’t been disagreements and fights.

The most difficult times have been when circumstances pull us apart and we feel alone.

The times when we miss each other even though we live in the same house.

The most common causes have been:

1. Illness
2. Pregnancy
3. Unusually busy seasons of life

# Bittersweet

Often when stories—especially modern stories—depict marital problems, they show one of the spouses being a bad spouse.

That is a real occurrence and there’s nothing wrong with depicting it

However, I’ve found in cases like this, the more poignant scenario is not when things could be better, but when things are as good as they can possibly be in this fallen world yet there is still emptiness.

# Isolation

I want isolation to be a major theme of this arc.

James and Adelle are isolated from each other and possibly the rest of the world.

I’m still debating on that latter part.  It might work well to have them in separate dimensions but still around other people.  Surrounded by people but lonely because they miss their other half.

# Adelle

I feel like her struggles in this part are clearer, and I’m mildly considering just focusing on Adelle and downplaying James for this part, to further increase the isolation.

Adelle feels cooped up at home.  She is a housewife, and not going on adventures.

I’m considering having her being either pregnant or having just miscarried during this arc.

If she isn’t pregnant, maybe she has an illness.

Idolizing James.

Doesn’t feel pretty and afraid James isn’t attracted to her anymore.

# James

Idolizing Adelle.

Stressed by work.

Feeling unfilled in work.

Frustrated with circumstances limiting physical interactions with Adelle.

Haunted by ghost Adelle.

# Resolution

Not to sound flat, but I don’t want this so much to be a lesson for them to learn.  They can grow from it, but the point of this arc isn’t that they did anything wrong.  The point is that even the righteous go through trials.

The trials aren’t because of their sin, but the trials do reveal their sin.

Beyond that, what is the resolution of this arc?  I like the tension, but is it actually building to any meaningful conclusion?

If there is an evil force driving the problems of the arc, how is the evil force defeated?

What is the aftermath?  I don’t want the story to simply pick up where it left off after this arc—each arc should move the story forward.

What if a younger couple came to Kellie and I saying they were going through these sorts of difficulties, and asked us for council?  What would we tell them?  What would we want them to know?  How would we want them to view their circumstances?

# Blind sides

In cases like this, it is good to look for cultural blind sides.

Find the blind sides, then exploit them.

# Spiritual points

You can’t love each other in your own strength.  It’s only by the love of Jesus flowing through you that you can love each other.

Every blessing God gives is a potential idol.   The greater the blessing, the greater the propensity for idolatry.

A spouse is one of the greatest blessings the Lord can give you.
