---
title: Haunted home - Scoping
notion_id: 1af58e628ba2807cb65dd3ac96328d12
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/Articles/Ideas/Haunted home/Haunted home - Scoping 1af58e628ba2807cb65dd3ac96328d12.md
alias: Haunted home - Scoping
created_at: 2025-03-07T04:02:00.000Z
modified_at: 2025-03-07T04:10:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Haunted-home-Scoping-1af58e628ba2807cb65dd3ac96328d12
notion_archived: false
---
# Haunted home - Scoping

# Overview

The purpose of this page is to capture the essence of what a haunted home story is and isolate both the aspects of that template I like and the aspects I don’t like.

From there, I can distill the qualities I like and flesh them out with a fresh template.

> 💡 This is a child page of [[41c6d83c86fa4b548719f12e6926f344]].

# Haunted home scope

This document is mainly concerned about a sub-genre of haunted house story: the haunted *home* story.  In the haunted home sub-genre, residents of a home are being haunted.  Such a storyline usually extends over a significant period of time.

That is in contrast with the haunted house visitor stories, where the protagonists are visiting a haunted house, usually to spend a single night.  In such cases, if the house is not abandoned but instead has human hosts, then those hosts are usually either in league with the spirits or at least immune to them.

# Primary examples

All of these examples are movies.  I’m not a big fan of horror movies, and I’m even less a fan of horror literature (other than Lovecraft.)

1. The Conjuring 2
2. The Conjuring
3. The Haunting of House Hill
4. Poltergeist

# Normal haunting motivation and attributes

## Vulnerability

Primarily, a haunted home is about being scary.

In particular, and similar to the home intrusion sub-genre, it's about being vulnerable in a normally safe place, or what is normally *the* safe place.

> 💡 If people cannot feel secure within their own home, where else can they feel secure?

## Imprisonment and siege

[[1ae58e628ba2800da8daef03aca2741d]] 

# Subversion

Here are the tropes I want to subvert:

## No Jesus

Protagonists in haunted home stories have no real hope.  They either:

1. Fight the occult with the occult.
2. Rely on weak shadows of Roman Catholicism
3. Desperately flail about.

I want to show what it is like to have Jesus as your refuge from the storm, including supernatural storms.

## Scary

I want there to be drama, tension, and suspense, but I don’t want it to be scary.

# Subversion challenges

## God mode

I don’t want trusting God to look like James and Adelle have God mode on and are invincible and untouchable.

I want Wolverine, not Superman.  Bullets bounce of Superman while Wolverine still feels the pain.
