---
title: Victorian
---
The setting of Marloth is primarily Victorian.

# Motivation

### Style

For me, Victorian is a sweet spot between classic art and modern sensibilities.

While I like older periods, they start getting a little primitive for my taste.

Victorian was the period of time where the industrial revolution was just taking off, without yet completely transforming the world.

Past the Victorian era, styles from architecture to clothing started to become less hand crafted and more mass produced.

Post-Victorian saw the gradual rise of "Form follow function".

That is a valuable paradigm, but it also has tradeoffs.

## Medieval fantasy

I'm a sucker for medieval fantasy.

It's a setting that has been genericized to death, yet it still holds so much charm.

Formalized by Tolkien and Howard, then taken to the next level by D\&D, it is the bread-and-butter of fantasy nerd-dom.

# Influences

Marloth's Victorian roots are primarily due to its initial inspiration, [[2392ae8e06574413acc3590f1f416e24]].

But I was already leaning heavily into Victorian settings before that, which is part of why [[2392ae8e06574413acc3590f1f416e24]] resonated so much with me.

My book I was working on previous to Marloth, the Shadowhood, was strictly Victorian.

The Shadowhood in turn was heavily influenced by [[30eba33ec4bb436180ac254bb05ecb1b]].

During the period around Marloth's formation, my family was particularly fond of Charles Dickens and Jane Austen books and televised adaptations.

<br />

