---
title: Adventure
notion_id: 1d458e628ba28026830dfe3db74cba19
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/Features/Adventure 1d458e628ba28026830dfe3db74cba19.md
alias: Adventure
created_at: 2025-04-13T04:46:00.000Z
modified_at: 2026-06-03T04:21:10.594Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Adventure-1d458e628ba28026830dfe3db74cba19
notion_archived: false
---
# Types

There are three types of adventure:

1. [Action](./8fb15ac964a44bf3ae98688555c43d1a.md) ([Action and Adventure](./ac9ebbbc0e9c48d2bd56bea4bda81a6f.md))
2. Tension

Ambient action and Tension usually go together, but Tension does not need Ambient Action, and it is theoretically possible to have Ambient Action without Tension.

For the latter case, it is potentially a part of [Cozy horror](./e5cc80dc61ed4c629951cdf472b20b7a.md), where the raging storm outside can make the house interior feel cozier.

# Ingredients

> 💡 I’m being a little loose with the associated inspirations, where not all of them have every ingredient in this list.

## Ambient action

<br />

## Journey

[Journey - frequent new locations](./1d458e628ba280c085bdf51e33d114a4.md)

## Evil empire and underdogs

## Multiple villains

[No primary villain](./c35043530c934c40b855bf28c1a1ad0c.md)

## Survival horror

[Survival horror](./dc101b6438cf43a8b5f1e17212b8c950.md)

## Combat

## Tactics and strategy

# What to do about Adventure?

I’m weary of how much modern fantasy relies on explosions and triple backflips.

So often the story freezes during action sequences.

Yet adventure is still part of the recipe.

# Peace in the eye of the storm

A key aspect to adventure is [Peace in the eye of the storm](./4e21b1585595437d834a897e603fb87a.md).

[Adventure and peace](./36058e628ba280b89502d09e0e9efb71.md).

# Wonderland

This page is tagged as an aspect of [Wonderland](./3cbc40d2ba2a4c76b4b9dc370452fcfe.md).

While the original Wonderland books didn’t exactly have the modern sense of adventure, they did have *a* sense of adventure.

After all, the first book was named “Alice’s *Adventures* in Wonderland”.
