---
title: Journey - frequent new locations
notion_id: 1d458e628ba280c085bdf51e33d114a4
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/Features/Journey - frequent new locations 1d458e628ba280c085bdf51e33d114a4.md
alias: Journey - frequent new locations
created_at: 2025-04-13T04:57:00.000Z
modified_at: 2026-02-25T04:34:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Journey-frequent-new-locations-1d458e628ba280c085bdf51e33d114a4
notion_archived: false
---
# Journey - frequent new locations

# Definition

Frequent new locations (only occasionally revisiting previous locations).

Part of the appeal is for this feature is to create a sense of progression.

> 💡 Closely related to [Intuitive continuity](Intuitive%20continuity%2029458e628ba2809d980bf33a4949e9ea.md).

# No intended destinations

The scope of this feature is only for travel when there is no clear destination.

I’m not interested in traveling to fixed locations.

Half of the appeal of this feature is being *surprised* where the story ends up.

# Negative destinations

The closest form of destination I’m interested in is negative destinations—characters fleeing from somewhere.

In other words: “I want to be anywhere but here.”

## Fleeing from nightmares

Ever since I was a child I’ve always been fascinated by the idea of running away from bad places.

Occasionally I would have a nightmare where I was lucid enough to feel empowered and run away like the wind.  I would keep running until I ended up in a fresh, pleasant dream.

I realize now that part of the appeal of that idea was the open-endedness of where I was running toward.

I never ran to a particular location.  It was like I was subconsciously knew that I was re-rolling the scenario, with a practically certain probability that the result would be positive.

# Foreshadowing and reflection - Dark Souls

Sometimes it is helpful to do the [Dark Souls](../Inspirations/Inspirations/Dark%20Souls%204126541b1c124056b5dff756778cdba2.md) effect of both foreshadowing in the distance where the protagonist will end up, and then when the protagonist arrives there, showing the previous location in the distance.

It’s important to emphasize here that especially for new players to the Souls games, it usually isn’t obvious that players can travel to those locations.

Part of the wonder of Dark Souls is it allows you to travel to the background.

Often games have fascinating backgrounds that are only for looks.

Dark Souls games generally allow you to travel to any distinct background.

## Caveat

Once a player is used to how the genre works, the player might expect to travel to the background and in that sense there is a known destination.

However, the pathways to arrive at those destinations are rarely straightforward in Dark Souls, and players can rarely reach them by trying.

Instead, the players just need to keep playing the game and progressing whichever way they can, and eventually they will arrive at that background location.

# Example: Angel

In one of the later seasons of [Angel](../Inspirations/Inspirations/Angel%20e78051e24c8d47aaaa8b5d0bf7bf8d93.md), the characters magically revert back to their previous selves.

The motivation for that storyline was to remind the audience what the characters used to be like many seasons ago, and to show how far the characters have come.
