---
title: Wife home healthcare
notion_id: 20f58e628ba2801f881dd9cb0885a89b
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/Solutions/Wife home healthcare 20f58e628ba2801f881dd9cb0885a89b.md
alias: Wife home healthcare
inferred_notion_path: Marloth/Solutions
created_at: 2025-06-11T22:25:00.000Z
modified_at: 2025-11-29T18:42:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Wife-home-healthcare-20f58e628ba2801f881dd9cb0885a89b
notion_archived: false
---
# Wife home healthcare

Historically, it seems like women tend to be more interested in home healthcare than men.

Part of it relates to the nurturing nature and role.  Women seem to be more sensitive to the daily health of the family, and ready to proactively find remedies when health problems appear.

Along similar lines, mothers seem to be more concerned about healthy eating than fathers.

# Conservative vs. liberal

This distinction is less of the case for young, single, liberal career women in a metro location.

But the more the woman moves away from any of those vectors, the more a concern for general health grows.

That is especially the case once a woman becomes a mother.

# Vision

I would like to depict some of this pattern in the following ways:

1. Have Adelle taking the initiative for family health matters
2. Have women in general be more interested in and aware of family healthcare
3. Depict women socializing and sharing tips about family healthcare
4. Depict a part of the role of doctors as educators to communities

# Doctors and community education

A key role for doctors is to educate and equip families to provide for their own health.

At least in America, that is currently a counter-cultural idea.

Like many religions, American healthcare has become esoteric.  Only the elite hold the keys and hide them from the masses.

Doctors should mitigate dependence upon themselves and empower their patients as much as possible.

## Intermediate specialists

Part of the problem is American healthcare is increasingly resistant to intermediate, specialized roles.

There used to be more intermediate roles, and they increasingly became replaced by nurses as the general-purpose role.

Similar to Moses’ father-in-law advising Moses to install a hierarchy of authority figures, healthcare should have a hierarchy of practitioners.

As it is, too many ailments require exaggerated escalation and inflated cost.

I think depicting any of this is outside the scope of the stories I am writing, but I wanted to capture the surrounding context and verify my premises.

# Adelle healthcare

## Adelle and the Nurse

One of the things I like about [Adelle](../Data/Characters/Adelle%202ff1980fd10b42a7bc0f65b61a2ab3e8.md) taking responsibility for family healthcare is that can add an extra connection to James’ mother, who is herself a nurse.

I’ve long considered the story arc of [The Nurse](../Data/Characters/The%20Nurse%20ae7cf88e2f574b81aa0e515dc0b8a1e5.md)  taking care of Nivana’s younger sister, [Jewel](../Data/Characters/Jewel%2020f58e628ba2804dae2ceb19a9717da5.md).

Potentially, in the first part I can depict Adelle assisting the nurse with the care of Jewel.

Adelle can observe and ask questions, and administer treatments when the nurse is away.
