---
title: "Deconstruction: Asylum exile"
notion_id: 20f58e628ba2805c8900c671c64574b9
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/Scenes/A woman is driven from the Asylum for being sane/Deconstruction Asylum exile 20f58e628ba2805c8900c671c64574b9.md
alias: "Deconstruction: Asylum exile"
created_at: 2025-06-11T04:46:00.000Z
modified_at: 2025-06-11T22:54:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Deconstruction-Asylum-exile-20f58e628ba2805c8900c671c64574b9
notion_archived: false
---
# Deconstruction: Asylum exile

> 💡 One thing that never occurred to me all these years until just now (June 10, 2025) is “Asylum” also means “Refuge” and “Sanctuary”.
> That may be worth a dedicated page to explore.

# Motivation

What is so interesting about having someone be dramatically cast out of the Asylum?

## Irony

Part of it is the irony.

I want to leverage irony wherever I can, but I also don’t want irony for irony’s sake, unless it is a side-joke.

In this case, this is a single scene with a significant technical impact on the narrative.  An impact that places restrictions on other scenes.  I don’t want that restriction unless more value is provided than simply irony.

## Cozy horror

This is a mild form of [Cozy horror](../../Features/Cozy%20horror%20e5cc80dc61ed4c629951cdf472b20b7a.md).  Potentially the first case of [Cozy horror](../../Features/Cozy%20horror%20e5cc80dc61ed4c629951cdf472b20b7a.md) in the story chronology.

It is mild in that the Asylum doesn’t completely fit the bill of cozy.

### Cozy Asylum entryway

However, that does present a novel thought.  I’ve already toyed with splashes of exaggerated coziness in the TWOLD Asylum (Adelle homemaking and an orderly reading a magazine)—what if I made the entry hall extra cozy for this scene?  A bustling, homey place with fireplaces and eating and industry and maybe music—I’m almost picturing a cramped, indoor market.  Almost like, "the Asylum during Christmas”?

Maybe I could somehow tie it in with psychology, medical themes?  Maybe some kind of psychology convention with booths and people wandering around?

## Evil world

> 💡 This is related [Cozy horror](Deconstruction%20Asylum%20exile%2020f58e628ba2805c8900c671c64574b9.md) but worth focusing on.

I want to have a backdrop of an evil world as a foil for James’ and Adelle’s righteousness.

This case of Asylum exile is a good depiction of that evil world.

### Corruption

What if the lady who is cast out isn’t killed, but instead is later encountered as a monstrous demoness?

“Death is not the greatest danger, it is corruption.” - James

## Moral horror

When I mentioned [Cozy horror](Deconstruction%20Asylum%20exile%2020f58e628ba2805c8900c671c64574b9.md), I was just thinking about the horrors outside the Asylum—fear of being separated from the protection of the Asylum and vulnerable to whatever lurks out there.

However, there is another horror, the horror of what man is doing.

Casting her out is wicked.

## Quality horror

It is also worth highlighting that the flavor of horror here is high quality.  It is not relying on gore or jump scares or gross phobias or profanity.

It is potentially disturbing, but in a restrained manner.

## Describing James’ and Adelle’s situation

The scene helps convey information to the audience about James’ and Adelle’s situation in a graphic manner.

That is effective storytelling.

# Rationale

Why would the Asylum workers cast anyone out?

## Limited resources

The Asylum is already crowded and running low on provisions.

# Conflicts

## James and Adelle cast out

## The Agency commuting

## The magic merchants commuting

I’ve been planning on having some scenes involving magic merchant workers sent to secretly gather magical women, all under the guise of science.

I was presuming those people would be arriving and leaving on the same day, with no residing there.  How would they manage that with all the dangers of travel?

## Any other practical travel outside the immediate scope of the story

Beyond the main characters of interest in this story arc, there is the larger question of: how did any of the other people currently present in the Asylum get there?  Do they ever leave?

# Random danger

Maybe I could soften the danger, but emphasize the danger as more of a *risk*.

Maybe it’s a *high* risk, but there is a chance the lady will be fine.

# Dangerous travel

All of the conflicts point to the need for *some* form of safe travel, but the very existence of that weakens the scene a little.

If there are safe means of travel, why don’t the people send her out with the safe means?

If it is a matter of timing, (such as travel being safer during the day than the night), why don’t they just wait a bit?

## Expensive travel

Maybe it costs a lot of money to travel safely?

## Intrinsic protection

Maybe safe travel requires something intrinsic about the individual?

If that were the case, it would be non-transferable.  Some people could safe travel and others couldn’t.

Maybe there is some sort of mark that people can get, like a blessing (or curse) but they can’t acquire it at the Asylum.

It wouldn’t answer the question of *how* the unblessed people arrived at the Asylum, but it narrows the problem.

Maybe the blessing has a shelf life—wears off.

## Double moral horror

Maybe the Asylum has been writing to one or more civil groups and asking for someone to visit the Asylum with the ability to bless people, and their pleas have been ignored.  The Asylum has been trying to offload people for a while and things are going critical.

That doesn’t reduce the blame of the Asylum, but it creates additional blame for the other parties.

## Logistical elegance

There is an elegance to the logistics of this situation.

If people could arrive at a certain place they would be blessed with safe travel.

However, without already having the blessing, they can’t travel to the place of blessing.

## Traveling in groups

However, that wouldn’t address the possibility of what would happen if blessed people traveled with unblessed people?  It seems like the blessing would cover neighbors to some degree.

## Disease / virus

Maybe the particular danger in question is more of magical disease or virus.

Sort of like a zombie outbreak, it turns people into monsters (tying back to [Corruption](Deconstruction%20Asylum%20exile%2020f58e628ba2805c8900c671c64574b9.md)).

That would resolve the problem of  [Traveling in groups](Deconstruction%20Asylum%20exile%2020f58e628ba2805c8900c671c64574b9.md).  It wouldn’t matter who you were traveling with, the question is whether each individual is immune to the disease.

That could also interplay with [Random danger](Deconstruction%20Asylum%20exile%2020f58e628ba2805c8900c671c64574b9.md).  Maybe some people are immune even without the blessing.  The risk is not knowing whether or not a person is immune until they are exposed to the virus.

### Healthcare

Part of me isn’t interested in having a virus, mainly for two reasons:

1. It is impersonal
2. It is too topical (COVID)

However, I do like the idea more as an opportunity for [Wife home healthcare](../../Solutions/Wife%20home%20healthcare%2020f58e628ba2801f881dd9cb0885a89b.md).

Adelle could take the initiative to learn more about this health danger and what remedies might exist.

I find myself liking that idea because it is both so unusual for a story yet so intriguing.  I feel like I may have stumbled upon a gold mine of an idea that can keep giving more good content for multiple storylines.

Sort of like different character classes in an RPG sometimes having different methods of managing similar domains (Such as the differences between how D&D wizards and clerics handle magic), I could see Adelle having different resources and methods for gathering information compared to James’ resources and methods for gathering information.

It’s sort of like an RPG class of *Medicine Woman*, with special rules how to learn how new remedies (and learn about new maladies).

I also like that because it ties in with my goals of integrating ordinary daily-life needs into the fantasy.

## Composite dangers

A virus might work, but I would still like to mix it with other dangers as well.  Travel is fraught with a variety of dangers—one of the dangers can’t be muscled away while other dangers can.

This is turning into a rock-paper-scissors system, and I like that.  The danger isn’t one-dimensional.

I’ve been hoping for such a system with the [Survival horror](../../Features/Survival%20horror%20dc101b6438cf43a8b5f1e17212b8c950.md) elements but I hadn’t stumbled upon any potentially strong ideas for that until now.
