---
title: Motivation for a Dark Forest
notion_id: 21758e628ba2803282ecd138a31e91b6
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/Features/Dark forest/Motivation for a Dark Forest 21758e628ba2803282ecd138a31e91b6.md
alias: Motivation for a Dark Forest
created_at: 2025-06-19T04:22:00.000Z
modified_at: 2026-02-01T04:37:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Motivation-for-a-Dark-Forest-21758e628ba2803282ecd138a31e91b6
notion_archived: false
---
# Motivation for a Dark Forest

# Overview

Why do I want to have a Dark Forest setting in a story?

Note that in the term *Dark Forest*, “Forest” is the part I am most interested.

*Dark* is secondary, but still an important clarification.

> 💡 The following sections are roughly in order of priority, from highest to lowest.

# Nature

I am a city boy who is often too disconnected from nature.

There is something healthy about nature.

> 💡 The first book had practically no nature settings.  The only times the characters are in the wilderness, it is described as barren and desolate.

# Verdant

I like greenery.  Abundant, overflowing greenery.

Some nature settings, such as deserts, are boring to me.

I want lush landscapes.

# Wild

I want the forest to feel like it has a life of its own, and it cannot be tamed by man.

In that respect, I wan this forest to effectively be more like a rain forest.

Man has learned to survive in the forest, but they do not control it.

# Maze-like

I suppose I like all of my environments to be maze-like, but forests—especially dense ones—are natural mazes.

# Community

While there may be some scenes of characters wandering the forest, most of the forest narrative will revolve around villages and dwellings.

In a way, these habitats are like islands, surrounded by a sea of trees.

# Magical

Ties in with [Folklore](../Folklore%20b9b9e0b8df614e64bae9bf2ec5b048a2.md).

Also haunted, [Cozy horror](../Cozy%20horror%20e5cc80dc61ed4c629951cdf472b20b7a.md), and supernatural.

# Dangerous

Even when nothing dangerous is happening, a dark forest has an air of menace.

# Isolated

While the city at night can have a sense of isolation, it is not as pure as being in the middle of a forest.

# Variety

Having an forest setting breaks up the urban paces.

# Alice in Wonderland

This is a minor motivation, but[Alice in Wonderland](../../Inspirations/Inspirations/Alice%20in%20Wonderland%20ca98e0e27dff4b77adff51cfedaca5ce.md) featured forest locations.

While I’m not trying to mimic [Alice in Wonderland](../../Inspirations/Inspirations/Alice%20in%20Wonderland%20ca98e0e27dff4b77adff51cfedaca5ce.md) beat-by-beat, it is one of my primary inspirations and it seems fitting to include such a distinct yet general enough that I am not in danger of ripping off a specific-feature.
