---
title: Suffering and Trials
notion_id: 22658e628ba280b2a6f3c56e9bc14b2e
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/Articles/Suffering and Trials 22658e628ba280b2a6f3c56e9bc14b2e.md
alias: Suffering and Trials
created_at: 2025-07-04T16:19:00.000Z
modified_at: 2025-07-05T23:39:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Suffering-and-Trials-22658e628ba280b2a6f3c56e9bc14b2e
notion_archived: false
---
# Suffering and Trials

> Count it all joy, my brothers, when you meet trials of various kinds, for you know that the testing of your faith produces steadfastness. - James 1:2-3

# Drama

Drama needs emotional tension, particularly suffering.

The key to wholesome drama is to frame the suffering as trials.

# Morality

Trials give suffering purpose, particularly moral purpose.

Trials provide characters moral decisions.

> 💡 Will the characters act righteously or wickedly?

# Providence

Framing suffering as trials emphasizes how they are from the Lord.

# Courage

Framing suffering as trials helps provide courage.

> Be strong and courageous. Do not fear or be in dread of them, for it is the Lord your God who goes with you. He will not leave you or forsake you. - Deuteronomy 31: 6

I personally love challenges.

When I see suffering as a trial, it encourages me to stand tall and tackle it head on.

In particular, all trials test a person’s reliance on God.

A person can say he is a Christian, but trials force him to put his money where his mouth is.

> and when they [the council] had called in the apostles, they beat them and charged them not to speak in the name of Jesus, and let them go. Then they [the apostles] left the presence of the council, rejoicing that they were counted worthy to suffer dishonor for the name.  - Acts 5: 40-41

# Two parallel tracks

The Bible, and especially the book of Proverbs, draws parallels between:

1. Righteousness and wisdom
2. Wickedness and foolishness

> 💡 The righteous are wise and the wicked are foolish.

Modern worldly narratives tend to focus on the former dimension without the latter.

In some circles it is popular to depict the righteous as foolish and the wicked as wise.

But that isn’t anything new:

> For Jews demand signs and Greeks seek wisdom, but we preach Christ crucified, a stumbling block to Jews and folly to Gentiles, but to those who are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God and the wisdom of God. For the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men. - 1 Corinthians 1: 22-26

> 💡 When constructing plots, be sure to include a mix of wise characters and foolish characters.

# Growth through the Spirit

Trials themselves do not cause growth.

Trials are catalysts to enable growth via otherwise dormant forces.

## Parable of the sower

While the trials in the Parable of the sower are not the catalyst, there is still a parallel between the principles described in the Parable of the sower and the “Count it all joy” passage in James 1.

> A sower went out to sow his seed. And as he sowed, some fell along the path and was trampled underfoot, and the birds of the air devoured it.

And some fell on the rock, and as it grew up, it withered away, because it had no moisture.

And some fell among thorns, and the thorns grew up with it and choked it.

And some fell into good soil and grew and yielded a hundredfold.” As he said these things, he called out, “He who has ears to hear, let him hear. - Mark 4: 3-9

## Explanation

> The sower sows the word.

And these are the ones along the path, where the word is sown: when they hear, Satan immediately comes and takes away the word that is sown in them.

And these are the ones sown on rocky ground: the ones who, when they hear the word, immediately receive it with joy.

And they have no root in themselves, but endure for a while; then, when tribulation or persecution arises on account of the word, immediately they fall away.

And others are the ones sown among thorns. They are those who hear the word, but the cares of the world and the deceitfulness of riches and the desires for other things enter in and choke the word, and it proves unfruitful.

But those that were sown on the good soil are the ones who hear the word and accept it and bear fruit, thirtyfold and sixtyfold and a hundredfold.” - Mark 4: 14-20

Just as a trial reveals forces otherwise unseen, so to do the trials in this parable reveal the quality of the soil.

# Visual suffering

[Visual suffering](./22758e628ba280348f99c702d9870261.md)
