---
title: Brainstorming impetus
alias: Brainstorming impetus
---
# Brainstorming impetus

> 💡 This is related to [[68fcf8588dda4e4b9f76a60bacc69428]].

# Premarital and marital

It’s worth noting that at the start of TWOLD, both James and Adelle want to be married.  That plot line seems to be working great, though that isn’t a reoccurring desire, unless I made them repeatedly become unmarried, which I really don’t want to do.

So the scope of the question can be further narrowed to what they want after they are married.

After all, part of the challenge I have set upon myself is to [make marriage cool](./729f8c8cb3774419a3611b8961a5da02.md)—to delve into what happens *after* the honeymoon—the supposedly boring stuff most writers don’t want to write about.

# Spiritual

Adelle and James can have all sorts of desires, but I want their primary, driving desires to be benevolent and spiritual.

# Not grand

The two primary reoccurring benevolent fantasy desires is rescuing people and saving the world.

I don’t want either of those.

They can occasionally rescue people, but that shouldn’t be a driving force or occupation.

I don’t want them ever trying to save the world.  That is pretentious.

Most service is humble and often underappreciated.

> 💡 This ties in with [[22a58e628ba280939038f8c818c31a52]].

# Not monster hunting

As discussed in [[8601b051b88444c2b6fcd3755ed12d18]], James can slay a few monsters, but I don’t want that to be his focus.  He slays monsters when he has to.

# Hospitality games

Another aspect to take into consideration here is [[10158e628ba280ca91c4ddfb4771680c]].

# What does Adelle want?

> 💡 Even though James is in one sense the primary protagonist, I’ll start with Adelle, because her desires were the instigating force in the first book, and my intuition is telling me that is a healthy precedent to perpetuate in the second book.

# What does James want?
