---
title: Wonderland vs. Responsibility
notion_id: 22a58e628ba280ed9f0bc8cf8d8317b8
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/Data/Tensions/Family Wonderland/Wonderland vs Responsibility 22a58e628ba280ed9f0bc8cf8d8317b8.md
alias: Wonderland vs. Responsibility
created_at: 2025-07-08T03:46:00.000Z
modified_at: 2026-05-16T16:09:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Wonderland-vs-Responsibility-22a58e628ba280ed9f0bc8cf8d8317b8
notion_archived: false
---
# Wonderland vs. Responsibility

# Overview

Really, the single biggest challenge facing [Family Wonderland](./0d8118d292f2464082e5fe738ef611d6.md) is [Responsibility](./23358e628ba280ca9e79ebeaa0fa931b.md).

I want James and Adelle to be fully responsible adults.

Not irresponsible.  Not minimally responsible.  Fully responsible.

# Irresponsible cases

Some of the main cases I am reacting against are:

1. Millennial couples with no kids and who act like kids themselves.  (and maybe a dog that is treated like offspring).
    1. There is nothing inherently wrong with not having kids, I’m describing a particular culture and mindset that can only exist in countries with extensive prosperity and materialism.
2. Superhero couples who never really settle down (mostly subverted in [Spider-Man (Renew Your Vows)](../../../Inspirations/Inspirations/Spider-Man%20(Renew%20Your%20Vows)%20939509d82a034b0b979e4eb1dbb1d794.md))
3. Superhero couples who settle down but in the end their story really isn’t domestic, it’s just about fighting ([The Incredibles](./36258e628ba2803db2c8e298b5ed3ee2.md) ).

# Exceptional circumstances

As stated in [Exceptional circumstances](./0d8118d292f2464082e5fe738ef611d6.md), I don’t want to fallback onto exceptional circumstances.

Exceptional circumstances can easily be an excuse for sin, and that is often the case in the genres I am tapping into (particularly survival horror).

# Reconciliation

However, is it possible to have exceptional circumstances as long as those circumstances are never treated as an excuse?

[Responsibility brainstorming](./22a58e628ba280288524f3e7b3e7e5c1.md)
