---
title: Adventure and Parenthood
notion_id: 22a58e628ba28018a5d4d835d7913ec2
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/Data/Tensions/Family Wonderland/Adventure and Parenthood 22a58e628ba28018a5d4d835d7913ec2.md
alias: Adventure and Parenthood
created_at: 2025-07-08T02:34:00.000Z
modified_at: 2025-07-08T02:44:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Adventure-and-Parenthood-22a58e628ba28018a5d4d835d7913ec2
notion_archived: false
---
# Adventure and Parenthood

> 💡 This is a part of [Family Wonderland](../Family%20Wonderland%200d8118d292f2464082e5fe738ef611d6.md).

# Parenthood

This tension is greater for the relationship between parents and children than the relationship between spouses.

Parents have a responsibility to protect their children.

> 💡 I am deferring a full exploration of parenthood until the third book.
> Since I am currently working on the second book, the question of parenthood isn’t quite as important, but it is still important for unlocking the general puzzles surrounding family.

# Endangering children

The notion of Christian parental responsibility is somewhat controversial, particularly within the context of missionary work.

The question is whether it is acceptable for missionary parents to endanger their children.

I lean against that idea, but that is easy for me to say in the comfort of my home.

> 💡 Civil martyrdom is different matter.
> There are cases where standing for righteousness requires putting your life on the line, which will endanger your family.
> The scope of “Adventure vs. Safety” is about people seeking out adventure, not adventure finding people.

# Spiritual warfare

Even when children aren’t in physical danger, there is a constant war for their hearts and souls.

In that respect, they are in the middle of the battleground.

> 💡 With the caveat that children should still be buffered from the front lines.

> 💡 While this is especially poignant for children it also applies to adults.

- [ ]  Explore how far I can take this idea.
