---
title: Surreal geography and tangible geography
notion_id: 22e58e628ba2809c9c0cdefe18621a01
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/Data/Tensions/Surreal geography and tangible geography 22e58e628ba2809c9c0cdefe18621a01.md
alias: Surreal geography and tangible geography
created_at: 2025-07-12T22:34:00.000Z
modified_at: 2026-05-16T20:07:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Surreal-geography-and-tangible-geography-22e58e628ba2809c9c0cdefe18621a01
notion_archived: false
---
# Surreal geography and tangible geography

There’s always been a tension with Marloth:

1. I want the geography to be fuzzy and vague
2. There is so much value to clear geography

# Game level design

I love 3D games with elaborate level design.

I love having a strong sense of place and landmarks.

Landmarks are so important in good level design.

# Static vs procedurally generated levels

I think the struggle I have in story telling is related to the struggle I’ve had between static and procedurally generated levels.

I’ve always gravitated toward procedurally creating my levels, yet I do enjoy hand crafting levels as well.

But I like the dynamic nature of every playthrough having different geography.

I like the layout to surprise me.

# Morphing doom levels

One feature of modern DOOM levels is how much they can mutate in sweeping ways.

Even though the levels are hand crafted, they aren’t *static*.

# Morphing Marloth geography

I dabbled with this in the first book, but how far can I make it a norm for a constantly evolving geography?

> 💡 In a way, that theme plays nicely with how I want to depict James’ job as a constantly shifting industry that needs constant adapting.

# The Cartographer

Through [[22f58e628ba280f3a94bf9a0d0460137]], a useful solution to to help solve this problem is a new profession and character, [[23058e628ba2800092a0d3566248e323]].
