---
title: General job scoping
alias: General job scoping
modified_at: 2026-06-12T06:57:07.042Z
created_at: 2026-06-11T19:50:10.103Z
---
The purpose of this page is to figure out what in the world James’s job should be.

> 💡 This is a supplement to [[1e3a028f3cd8477ba69306ef8654f553]].

# Modeling after my experience

[[25458e628ba28003a222ff958345b418]]

# Monster hunting

There should be little to no monster hunting.

[[8601b051b88444c2b6fcd3755ed12d18]]

# RPG class

I think subconsciously I want James to be similar to the fantasy RPG class I always gravitate to when possible: the rogue/mage.

I love the subtly of rogues and how they have to rely on cunning to overcome their weaknesses.  However, pure rogues are a little too devious and down-to-Earth for me.  A little too tactical and practical.

I love the imaginative bending of reality and cerebral nature of mages.  However, pure mages are a little too straightforward for me.  They are complex, but they also rely on raw power.

When combined, I can get the best of both worlds with less of the weaknesses.  Both subtlety and depth.  Stealth assisted with cantrips.

With that said, I still want James a little more ordinary than any classic fantasy RPG class.  Up front, James is a Victorian gentleman.

# Sapphire and Steel

I forgot about [[f4522f813fe047fe9cc7daef159bed6d]].  I was fascinated with the show and saw potential in applying some of its ideas in both the Marloth game and story, but at the time I was focused on the game and ended up not seeing a great way of applying it to the kind of game I was making.  I also noted that the show would probably translate better to the Marloth narrative, but never pursued that direction and forgot about it.

Now that I am fleshing out all of these other job issues, it’s remarkable how closely Sapphire and Steel fit the bill for James’ occupation.

[Software agency (1)](General%20job%20scoping/Software%20agency%20\(1\)%2025458e628ba28020956feff899da332b.md)

# Domains

I may be focusing a little too much on what tasks the job would involve.  That is very important, but since I’ve been struggling along that direction, there’s another angle to also look at.

To some degree, I have a broad set of services I can provide, but most of those services revolve around particular domains.  Most of my services are derived from domain knowledge.  The knowledge comes first and the possible tasks that can be performed come second.

# Magic

Magic has been one of the most obvious selections as a domain for James to master.

However, I’ve always been hesitant about running in that direction.  Similar to my explanations in [RPG class](./25458e628ba280bf94a9c035bd52cfd0.md), pure magic users have a certain brute force power I’ve always wanted to avoid with James.

Throughout the first book, James has a certain lucid awareness of his surrounding dream-state, and that helps him navigate magic, yet he is not himself a wielder of magic.

[[25458e628ba2805282baeb567e10757f]]

# Blurring

One possible solution is not to pick a particular occupation for James and fudge it.

This wouldn’t normally be an option, but this is Marloth, and James already has an understated, enigmatic personality which fits the idea of keeping his occupation vague.

To some degree he could be a generalist with a broad skill set.

If I go this route, it’s not like his occupation has no definition.  All of the aspects I have listed in this and related pages can be applied to his role, without actually defining a core activity he is consistently responsible for.

# Risk management

I think I finally have the right role for James: risk management.

I’ve considered the idea before but didn’t explore it very far.

Now I’m exploring it farther and I like what I’m finding.

Part of the blindside is I’ve been looking for an ordinary role for James, but I kept defaulting to blue collar positions.  I wasn’t thinking in terms of white color positions.

Instead of looking lowly, it looks stuffy.

On paper his job is problem prevention.  In practice, people don’t listen to him and his job is problem fixing.  His involvement follows the following flow:

1. Researches situation.
2. Makes recommendations.
3. Prepares for everything to go wrong.
4. Fixes things the best he can when everything goes wrong.

In some respects, his involvement is similar to Jeeves ([[18658e628ba280b781bfcabd1d05cd5d]]).

# Problems with risk management

While the Risk management idea is useful and I probably will continue to use it somehow, it just isn't playing out as a *primary* role for James.

Part of the problem is it doesn't really fit either my personality, which in turn doesn't fit James' slice of my personality.

Another related part of the problem is it doesn't fit the *setting*.

While Marloth (a with most of my art) is built around doom and some apprehension, the bulk of the problems are current, not potential future.

This isn't a pristine setting in danger of falling from grace, this is a fallen setting in need of grace.

# Fixer

James' job should be less about preventing bad things from happening, as much as cleaning up after bad things already happened.

I've briefly touched on this idea already in previous articles, but I have yet to really flesh it out and try to make it a centerpiece.

