---
title: Survival vs. Cozy
notion_id: 27b58e628ba280ea9b77ceb101ea3a65
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/Data/Tensions/Survival vs Cozy 27b58e628ba280ea9b77ceb101ea3a65.md
alias: Survival vs. Cozy
created_at: 2025-09-27T19:22:00.000Z
modified_at: 2026-02-03T04:26:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Survival-vs-Cozy-27b58e628ba280ea9b77ceb101ea3a65
notion_archived: false
---
# Survival vs. Cozy

# Problem

The ‣ aesthetic only partially harmonizes with [Cozy horror](../../Features/Cozy%20horror%20e5cc80dc61ed4c629951cdf472b20b7a.md).

The horror aspect of [Cozy horror](../../Features/Cozy%20horror%20e5cc80dc61ed4c629951cdf472b20b7a.md) involves survival, but the cozy part involves comfort.

Within the context of survival, such comfort is an excessive luxury. ([Wartime mentality](../../Articles/Article%20archive/Wartime%20mentality%2015758e628ba2801e9578f5e1fc90b450.md))

# Solution

I think the solution is two-part.

The two parts involve splitting comfort into two categories, or degrees:

| Minimal comfort | Minimal physical |
| --- | --- |
| Full comfort | Spiritual,  mental, emotional |
1. Minimal comfort
2. Full comfort

## Minimal comfort

Minimal comfort is sustenance.

There is a minimal degree of provision humans need to survive.

A scrap of bread can be a feast to a starving man.

People need shelter to protect them from the elements.

People need sleep, and a place to sleep.  (People generally can’t sleep standing up.)

## Full comfort

Full comfort is beyond physical sustenance, and is about reaching peace.

> There is nothing better for a person than that he should eat and drink and find enjoyment in his toil. This also, I saw, is from the hand of God, for apart from him who can eat or who can have enjoyment? For to the one who pleases him God has given wisdom and knowledge and joy, but to the sinner he has given the business of gathering and collecting, only to give to one who pleases God. This also is vanity and a striving after wind. - Ecclesiastes 2:24-26

# Sanity

For spiritual comfort to be significant within the narrative, there needs to be a counter-weight.

If characters do not receive this additional intangible sustenance, they are in danger of going insane.

In other words, spiritual and mental stability needs to be a significant issue.

The audience needs to see the detrimental effects of spiritually malnourished characters.

# Kindness

The prescription cannot simply be a soulless provision.  It needs to be more than paying for someone to spend a night in an opulent hotel.

It needs to be a gift of love.

It’s a home cooked meal.  The shirt off one’s back.

It needs to be a gesture that someone cares.

I needs to be personal.
