---
title: Vulnerable to light
notion_id: 27c58e628ba280f3aa0af9365c7362c5
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/Features/Vulnerable to light 27c58e628ba280f3aa0af9365c7362c5.md
alias: Vulnerable to light
created_at: 2025-09-28T02:37:00.000Z
modified_at: 2026-02-25T04:34:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Vulnerable-to-light-27c58e628ba280f3aa0af9365c7362c5
notion_archived: false
---
# Vulnerable to light

This idea is about monsters that are vulnerable to light.

My main interest in this idea is light being a ‣ mechanic.

Making light a weakness turns it into a shield of protection and weapon that can be wielded.

Adding survival weight to light also supports [Cozy horror](./e5cc80dc61ed4c629951cdf472b20b7a.md).

[Scarce light sources](./1d958e628ba280ca8af1ff43eb5c3a1f.md) 

# Shades and other monster types

In [A Child’s Fairytale World](./c368a02eabb74a47ab322615f2769723.md), Shades were the main monster type which were vulnerable to light.

I’m not as interested in Shades in particular in later books but they may still have them.

I’d kind of like light vulnerability to be a common weakness for multiple monster types.

> 💡 It’s sort of like a CRPG with different damage types, and each creature type has different resistances and vulnerabilities.

# Daylight

In terms of linking inspirations, this idea doesn’t apply to Vampires and their weakness to sunlight, or creatures that only come out at night.

> 💡 Underworld featured solar bullets, which is a cool idea, but that’s also not what I’m going for here.
> I’m interested in ordinary, wholesome elements being used as a weapon.
> I’m not interested in them actually being *weaponized*.

This idea is about light in the midst of darkness.  It is about creatures that can be fended off by light *during the night*.
