---
title: Unholy Blood
notion_id: 28458e628ba2802fb201d00c0bb8bcb9
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/Inspirations/Inspirations/Unholy Blood 28458e628ba2802fb201d00c0bb8bcb9.md
alias: Unholy Blood
inferred_notion_path: Marloth/Inspirations/Inspirations
created_at: 2025-10-06T01:25:00.000Z
modified_at: 2026-02-03T03:49:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Unholy-Blood-28458e628ba2802fb201d00c0bb8bcb9
notion_archived: false
---
# Unholy Blood

[Unholy Blood](https://www.webtoons.com/en/supernatural/unholy-blood/list?title_no=1262)

# Assessment

The first part of Unholy Blood is spectacular, both in its originality, beautiful illustrations, gripping plot, and heartfelt drama.

After that the story immediately throws out most of its initial strengths.  In particular, it starts to dilute its unique take on vampires for a more gag-inducing Anne Rice.  It still has its moments, and at least it isn’t bad, it just becomes less compelling.

Then the last half of the book gets lamer and lamer until I found it unbearably stupid and obnoxious.  Most of that revulsion was due to the https://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Main/BigBad.

> 💡 There’s a fine line between villains that raise engaging ire, and villains that raise ire toward the story and writer, alienating the audience.

At the time of this writing, I haven’t finished it yet.

What a shame.  The first part is some of the best storytelling I’ve ever read.

# Survival horror

I have this tagged as [Survival horror](../../Features/Survival%20horror%20dc101b6438cf43a8b5f1e17212b8c950.md), but I want to qualify that.

Most of the story isn’t [Survival horror](../../Features/Survival%20horror%20dc101b6438cf43a8b5f1e17212b8c950.md), but it occasionally splashes it, and when it does, it is one of the most unique scenarios.

Normally vampires in literature are either a shadowy niche, preying on a relatively small percentage of the human population.

A more recent alternative take has occasionally popped up in recent years, where vampires have taken over the world and enslaved humanity.  That isn’t very common but common enough to become an established sub-genre.

*Unholy Blood* is somewhere in the middle, where the world has become overrun by vampires, but vampires don’t rule the world (though they are trying to.)

Especially at the start of the book, the vampire activity is basically a dramatized and extreme version of crime activity.  It’s like the whole world has become an inner city, except the gangs are vampires instead of thugs.

Unholy Blood executes this with an unusual balance, where there is still an aspect to society that is normal and thriving, yet also more afraid to go out at night.

Characters watch the news from the comfort of their homes while reporters talk about rising vampire activity like it was the L.A. Riots.

In other words, for brief moments Unholy Blood manages to have the best of both worlds: A dramatically deadly world while still being able to be slice-of-life.

It’s borderline [Cozy horror](../../Features/Cozy%20horror%20e5cc80dc61ed4c629951cdf472b20b7a.md), except it never doubles-down on the *cozy—i*t creates a horrific setting that could easily support cozy.
