---
title: Hiding from monsters
notion_id: 28c58e628ba280c8b7eaf4886c771fdf
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/Features/Survival horror/Temporal and spatial mechanics of survival horror/Hiding from monsters 28c58e628ba280c8b7eaf4886c771fdf.md
alias: Hiding from monsters
created_at: 2025-10-14T03:59:00.000Z
modified_at: 2025-10-14T07:00:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Hiding-from-monsters-28c58e628ba280c8b7eaf4886c771fdf
notion_archived: false
---
# Hiding from monsters

A staple of survival horror is sneaking around and hiding from monsters.

# Unaware might

The core premise behind sneaking/hiding from monsters is:

The monster is more physically powerful than the character, but the character has an intellectual advantage over the monster.

# Weakening the monster

To some degree this mechanic feels counter-intuitive to horror, and can easily be taken too far.

Monsters are supposed to be intimidating.

They are less intimidating when the character can simply avoid them.

Sometimes the scariest kind of villain is the villain that is practically omniscient.

Along more practical degrees, it is often effective to have the monsters spying on the characters without them aware.

> 💡 It is silly how often a horror movie will have monsters spying on the characters, but once they attack the protagonist, the protagonist is somehow able to hide.

## Low tolerance

When the story leans toward thriller, it puts more weight on the characters being *barely* able to avoid detection.

I feel like this is a cheap trick that strains my suspension of disbelief.

Stories are more engaging when they are playing to realistic odds.

# Accepting weakened monsters

With all that said, unaware monsters *can* be effective.

I think a few rules of thumb should be:

1. If a character successfully hides from a monster, the probability for success should have been equally high.
2. Characters should only be able to hide from certain monsters, or at least they can’t hide in the same way from every monster (different monsters have different [](./28b58e628ba28033bc48e839eb349734.md).)

> 💡 [[28c58e628ba2801a919ce41fb9a52aaa]] is one of the best examples of portraying contrasting strengths and weaknesses of heroes and monsters.  (*Starship Troopers* was an influence for that.)
> In different circumstances, the Space Marines could have exterminated the Xenomorphs without casualties.

# Requirements

This scenario has the following requirements:

1. The monster wants to kill the character
2. The monster is physically more powerful than the character
3. The character is within the vicinity of the monster
4. The monster would kill the character if the monster knew the character’s location
5. To some degree, the character is aware of the monster’s location
6. The environment can occlude the player from the monster
