---
title: Post-apocalyptic narratives
alias: Post-apocalyptic narratives
modified_at: 2026-06-12T02:46:09.528Z
created_at: 2026-06-11T20:04:26.901Z
---
In a way, I don’t like post-apocalyptic stories, yet they contain elements that make [[dc101b6438cf43a8b5f1e17212b8c950]] work well.

It would be good for me to analyze what I do and don't like about the post-apocalyptic genre.

Potentially through that analysis I can find ways to extract what I want from the genre without relying on it.

# Features I dislike

## Pure entropy

Post-apocalyptic settings general involve civilization crumbling, leaving the survivors to pick the bones of what came before.

It usually involves humanity being in a non-sustainable situation.

## Suspension

However, often post-apocalyptic narratives artificially suspend the decay, and that irks me.

It's a trying to "have your cake and eat it too" dilemma.

The writer wants the sense of decay, but without paying the cost for what that decay would actually do to the setting.

Global decay is expensive, and it can easily cripple the stories the writer wants to tell.

## Living in the past

Post-apocalyptic narrative is framed in the past.

The entire setting is an echo of what once was.

It’s one thing to have stories like the Lord of the Rings, which reflects on remnants of past civilizations, in the midst of more recent civilizations.

It’s another thing to have stories about a seemingly irretrievable past.

I prefer to live in the future more than the past.

> 💡 I want to create a sense that the party is either going to happen or is happening, not that the party has long been over.

## Grimdark

Post-apocalyptic narratives tend to lean toward [[27b58e628ba2805da1cfdda3eff41649]] and the same mistake of oversimplifying society and what makes the world turn.

## Punk

Post-apocalyptic is often Punk, and I don’t like Punk.

# Strengths

## Desperation

Scarce resources provide a great catalyst for [[3c8bb63bea1440cba5eb8b570cecec24]].

## Surrealism

Post-apocalyptic narratives present a surrealistic take on civilized environments.

Cities become playgrounds for the survivors.

It contains a juxtaposition between everyday environments and a war zone.

[[1d458e628ba280dca6edf1ec4b703759]]

# Haunting

Post-apocalyptic isn't always haunting, but it can be.

Haunting is actually a natural feature of post-apocalyptic.

Post-apocalyptic is about echoes of a former civilization.

