---
title: TWOLD extended synopsis
alias: TWOLD extended synopsis
---
# TWOLD extended synopsis

# Marriage

A man and a woman fall in love and get married.

## The husband

The husband has wrestled for a long time with settling down and being responsible.

However, he has come to the end of himself, and is finally ready to settle down.

## The wife

The wife has pined for a long time for a husband.

She used to be rich and popular, but now she is poor and lowly.

She is accustomed to giving orders, but now she must follow them.

## Family

The husband and wife have family which they are close to and support them.

# Christ

The husband and wife are Christians, and trust in Jesus.

They are both sinners, but they have the Holy Spirit working through them.

# The World

The husband and wife grew up in a land of peace and prosperity, but are now in a land of war and poverty.

# The denizens

The denizens of this land are desperate.

They live in fear.

They produce little, and mostly take.

They hurt each other.

They see each other as predators and prey.

They do not realize they are largely the cause of their own problems.

# Power

The denizens see power as the solution to all of their problems.

They believe power will protect them from their neighbors.

The denizens strive to attain more power.

# Illusion

Some denizens are more fortunate than others.

The more fortunate denizens can afford the appearance of benevolence.

However, under the surface they are still predators and prey.

# Light

The husband and wife stand in contrast to their neighbors.

The husband and wife trust in Jesus.

Jesus blesses them, and they bless others.

Their righteousness is sincere.

# Darkness

The darkness hates the light, and wants to snuff it out.

The darkness hates the husband and wife, and singles them out as targets for its malice.

# Protection

The Lord protects the husband and wife.

# Rebellion

The world has a rebellious spirit.

The world originally rebelled against God and his laws, which resulted in their current plight.

Instead of returning to the Lord, they look to other things for redemption.

After rebelling against God, they rebel against each other.

The ruled try to overthrow the rulers.

# Submission

The husband and wife submit to their authorities, just as they submit to Christ.

However, there are times when earthly authorities conflict with the heavenly authority.

The husband and wife place God’s law before man’s law.

The husband and wife are persecuted for prioritizing God’s law.

# Vindication

Fresh judgement falls upon the land.

The machinations of man are undone.

The rebellions are brought to naught.

The rebels are routed.

The husband and wife are rewarded for their steadfastness.

# Conclusion

The husband and wife are happy, and they praise the Lord.
