---
title: Initially present the Bear as a shadowy figure
notion_id: 2aa58e628ba280b98884fd832e656357
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/Solutions/Initially present the Bear as a shadowy figure 2aa58e628ba280b98884fd832e656357.md
alias: Initially present the Bear as a shadowy figure
created_at: 2025-11-13T04:53:00.000Z
modified_at: 2025-11-29T18:41:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Initially-present-the-Bear-as-a-shadowy-figure-2aa58e628ba280b98884fd832e656357
notion_archived: false
---
# Initially present the Bear as a shadowy figure

I like the idea of having [[95e68e70d28b409281fa2b931537bb79]]  in one or more scenes earlier in the story where he appears as some ominous figure in the background, shrouded in mystery.

One of the main characters would wonder who this figure is.

Later the audience would be formally introduced to [[95e68e70d28b409281fa2b931537bb79]] and learn that he is jovial.

While the initial part would mostly be misdirection, there would still be some truth to the initial presentation in that [[95e68e70d28b409281fa2b931537bb79]] *does* live a life embroiled in dark and otherworldly endeavors.

# Problems

There are two primary challenges when integrating this idea into the current story:

1. There are no immediately obvious candidates as observers to wonder about [[95e68e70d28b409281fa2b931537bb79]].
2. I don’t currently have many dire/supernatural circumstances in the first part to tie this to.

# Observers

In some previous versions of Part 1 I had James and co already starting to have small-scale adventures.

Now I’ve pushed all of that to not start until Part 2.

[[a2ee9cd0a28b4945af74fd3022fd97af]] is the proxy protagonist for the first part.

However, the observers don’t *have* to be main characters.

# Circumstances

Other then the Mediev family drama near the end of Part 1, I don’t currently have many adventurous scenes planned for Part 1.

It may be good to change that a little.

I like having a more ordinary first part to have some contrast to the later parts, but I don’t need *that* much of a contrast.

Introducing a little more intrigue and adventure into the first part would help with continuity.
