---
title: Minimal political intrigue
notion_id: 2aa58e628ba280a19372f46ef56816ca
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/Data/Restrictions/Minimal political intrigue 2aa58e628ba280a19372f46ef56816ca.md
alias: Minimal political intrigue
created_at: 2025-11-13T07:13:00.000Z
modified_at: 2026-05-14T04:16:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Minimal-political-intrigue-2aa58e628ba280a19372f46ef56816ca
notion_archived: false
---
# Minimal political intrigue

# Overview

I hate *Game of Thrones-*style politics.  For me, they are often pretentious and always drain the life out of a fantasy yarn.

I want Marloth narratives to have a splash of politics without *focusing* on the politics.

In particular, I want to minimize political scheming.  Any political scheming should stay in the background.

# Proper place

I’m more open to having political elements in scenes when it is people considering and reacting to political factors.

In that respect, politics can be seen as macro-etiquette.  It’s people considering how to work within social constraints and be gentlemen and gentlewomen.

> 💡 Where there is political scheming, it should always be portrayed as negative.
> In general, heroes should not be involved with political schemes.

# Impersonal organizations

The most classic means of personifying an organization is having a clearly defined leader who in turn is the personification of that organization.

To maintain lightweight politics, Marloth narratives should downplay depicting particular rulers of large organizations.

The larger the organization (such as a nation) the more impersonal it should be.

Small organizations can have distinct leaders, but large “corporations” should be headless.

There can be exceptions to this rule, but the exceptions should be minimal.

This relates to [[c35043530c934c40b855bf28c1a1ad0c]].
