---
title: Archive for Nivana supporting her sister
notion_id: 2aa58e628ba28096a3d8ce76019ab7b6
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/Solutions/Nivana supporting her sister/Archive for Nivana supporting her sister 2aa58e628ba28096a3d8ce76019ab7b6.md
alias: Archive for Nivana supporting her sister
inferred_notion_path: Marloth/Solutions/Nivana supporting her sister
created_at: 2025-11-13T05:36:00.000Z
modified_at: 2025-11-13T05:37:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Archive-for-Nivana-supporting-her-sister-2aa58e628ba28096a3d8ce76019ab7b6
notion_archived: false
---
# Archive for Nivana supporting her sister

> 💡 This is largely outdated notes stored for historical reference.
> For up-to-date notes, see [Nivana supporting her sister](../Nivana%20supporting%20her%20sister%202aa58e628ba2801bbbdaef7a7af37013.md).

The sister-support arc was thrown out because it became outdated as other parts of the story changed, but the story has continued to change so much, it may be worth revisiting again to see if it has found fresh application.

~~Nivana’s decision to work for her uncle should be hers alone.  It should be more directly part of her plan.~~

~~So yeah, after reviewing the factors, the sister-support arc is out.  It’s a great arc but not for this story.~~

> 💡 Another reason why I discarded the sister-support arc was because it reduced some of Nivana’s free agency.  It makes her decision to work for her uncle look too noble and masks some of the moral and character issues.
> > 💡 While I want to utilize every opportunity for moral storytelling, now that Nivana is completely a secondary character I’m less worried about her free agency.  What Nivana does and doesn’t choose is no longer the focal point of the story.
> >
> > This is shaping up to be one of those cases where I initially have my heart set on extreme contrasts and finally find it better to make things less extreme and more nuanced.

> 💡 Part of the reason I discarded the sister-support arc was because it conflicted with Nivana and Adelle’s relationship.  That is still a major concern.
> > 💡 This is less of a concern now.  As Adelle’s role in TWOLD has become more established, she is less dependent on Nivana, and there is more room for different sorts of female-to-female relationships.

> ⚠️ Part of the reason I discarded the sister-support arc was because it conflicted with Nivana and Adelle’s relationship.  That is still a major concern.
