---
title: Remote magic trading job
notion_id: 2ae58e628ba28044aacbe1df1838b8e9
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/Solutions/Remote magic trading job 2ae58e628ba28044aacbe1df1838b8e9.md
alias: Remote magic trading job
created_at: 2025-11-17T02:13:00.000Z
modified_at: 2025-11-29T18:41:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Remote-magic-trading-job-2ae58e628ba28044aacbe1df1838b8e9
notion_archived: false
---
# Remote magic trading job

Remotely trading magical energy.

Inspired by cryptocurrency, particularly crypto exchanges.

# The old ways

Before this invention, magical energy had to be carted around.

Magical energy is difficult to contain and transfer.

Each method of storage and transfer has distinct limitations and technical challenges.

## Competition

Some people are locked into the old local methods and feel threatened by remote magic trading.

> 💡 [[2af58e628ba280a2bcedef7b576a2115]] 

# Cost

Right off, remote transference of magical energy will in turn require magic.

For that, each transfer will require some magical expenditure.

On top of that, there will need to be transfer fees.

> 💡 Without fees, owners of the transfer systems won’t make a profit and won’t have an incentive to create and maintain the transfer systems.

However, remote transfer will still be cheaper than physically transporting magic.

Also, some direct methods of transferring magic could be lossy, adding further weight toward remote transfers.

Both the cost of transfer and the fee will be paid by the sender.

# Network

In order to transfer magic, there will need to be some kind of network of channels to send magic along.

The network could be physical or magical.

Maybe the story can use both methods.

In many respects, physical vs. magical would be analogous to wired vs. wireless.

# Infrastructure

In order to have such a network, infrastructure must be laid down.

Unless I come up with a previous use for such a network, this is where the cryptocurrency analogy would break down a little.

While cryptocurrency nodes are a type of network, their main form of communication is the internet, which was already established before cryptocurrency, and for a wide variety of applications.

If the setting of TWOLD doesn’t have a similar previous reason to create such a network, this scheme would start to more closely resemble the telegraph, where there was no existing network and the infrastructure had to be slowly laid from scratch.

# Communication

What if I do follow the telegraph/phone line model, where a network has already been established for communication?

Or maybe this trading idea is getting ahead of myself, and I should *start* with remote communication.

Whoa, that in itself would be a paradigm shift for a fantasy world.

Normally fantasy settings have very limited remote magical communication.

Introducing a vast communication network would change the way communication was handled across the setting.

Even if I added restrictions, I would have to restrict it to the point of absurdity to get close to standard fantasy communication methods.

Maybe that would be fine, but for someone who practically lives in front of a computer, I prefer the idea of a narrative setting where the bulk of communication is local and personal.

# Instability

The best solution for preserving the analogy distinction may be [[2af58e628ba28095a0c1dab32e614f69]].

All of these networking solutions need to be unstable.

But what manner of instability?
