---
title: Marloth notes from 10-05-2023
notion_id: 2bb58e628ba28082a03cff61f69191a1
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/Archive/Old Marloth notes/Marloth notes from 10-05-2023 2bb58e628ba28082a03cff61f69191a1.md
alias: Marloth notes from 10-05-2023
created_at: 2025-11-30T20:07:00.000Z
modified_at: 2025-11-30T20:09:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Marloth-notes-from-10-05-2023-2bb58e628ba28082a03cff61f69191a1
notion_archived: false
---
# Marloth notes from 10-05-2023

> 💡 I wrote this 10/05/2023 9:34 pm.
> It’s embarrassing.  I was still pretty immature in my thinking.

So what do I want?  What do I want the third part to be?  Acctually,
it’s fairly simple.  I want there to be the same harsh darkness,
for now we are acctually seeing it’s lair.  But I also want to show
the beatiful enya atmosphere also.  Where the two meet, results in
adventure.  I’m not going to worry about the haunting element.  If
there should be any haunting, it should be in he second part.

There. That’s it.  I’ve just thoroughly defined my goal.  It’s too
easy!  And it’s far too cool!	Now I need to start throwing in
ingredients.  I believe this could be split into two categories - old
and new.  Old isn’t quite the right word.  Their continuing
elements.  Elements that have already been introduced and would apply
quite nicely to the current situation.  Then there’s new elements
that should be created just specifically for this current location. 
Later on in the story, they’ll be continued with if they pass the
process I just mentioned for old elements.

So first I need to throw in what continuing ingredients fit into this
new mix.

First of those is James.  But who is he now?  (Notice I’m not concerning
myself with what he acctually does, but simply his state.  And his
state needs to be relatively consistent through the entire third
part).  He’s the most critical ingredient because he sums up what
the audience is supposed to be feeling.  In effect, the audience is
right behind him.  So comparing him with the goal I defined above,
where should he be leading the audience?  Where should their eyes be
set?

On Adelle.  James is going to rescue her.  He should feel empowered. 
Now things are looking a little more like good verses evil.  Maybe
evil isn’t the right word.  Determined.

Instead of helplessly falling into the sky, he leaps.  He’s not trying to
catch the vehicle.  He’s trying to fall into Marloth.  I can use
the scene where Adelle and he are talking about her desire to see the
outside world and him describing it to bring up the swirling nebulus
of clouds surrounding the castle and how he knew that in the distance
lay Marloth.  When she asks where they go downward, he says he’s
not sure, but he’s heard that whichever way you go in those clouds,
you will land in Marloth.  She brings up the ideas of what if you
fell forever or splatted or drowned or something.  The main issue
here is creating just the right ambience with these clouds.  What I’m
trying to do is make James leaping after Adelle a leap of faith,
since he’s not going the same route she is.  She’s going
horizontal while he’s going down.  I have an idea.  In their
conversation I could have him say his ideas of what could be beyond
the void came from his book of fairytales.  Yes, that would fit
nicely.

This is working out splendidly!  I cannot express how encouraged I am to
write!  For once in a very very long time I see clearly what lies
before me, and how I am supposed to go.  In fact, I’d say that this
is probably the first time I have *ever*
seen this clearly.  I bet I could easily go back to the first two
parts and enhance them emensely with this wonderful revelation.

Thank you Jesus!

So now James does not land because he was randomly thrown down by
circumstances.  He lands with a purpose.  Now he’s like an alien in
this world.  He has a goal and mission none of the wretched denizens
can relate to.

So where does he land?  For once, I don’t think that’s really so
important.  That’s just enticing me to start focusing on events
again.  James just lands in Marloth.  Where he lands is not currently
important.  It’s a ways from where Adelle is, but distance is
relative in Marloth.  As long as the audience *feels*
like he’s a great distance from her.

Now James needs to equip himself, sort of like Neo and Trinity in the
Matrix.  He’s getting ready to go into the building, and it’s
going to be a tough fight.

Acctually, this section could be a lot like the Matrix.  And Batman.  Now James
is empowered.  Stand back you fallen denizens of Marloth, it’s
payback time.

What I need to do is cut back James’ epic grandeur in the action
sequence in the second part.  He needs to be more desperate,
pathetic.  That would also make the scene where Adelle realizes James
is a zombie feel more consistent.  James was already sort of the fall
guy.

And now he’s not.  I’d like to give this part a creepiness similar to
Batman where James is likewise - despite being the ‟goodguy” -
slightly unnerving.  I did a little of that with the previous scene
where in which James finds his weapons, but that felt a little weird.
 Now that James is being presented as more powerful, it fits better. 
It’s got revenge written all over it.  Hey, that’s just like
American McGee’s Alice!  This is too perfect!

But there’s more to the situation then just that.  What about the
creepy side?

No, before I get to that, I need to deal with (well, I don’t need to,
but it would be nice to get it out of the way) the enya aspect.  I
need to apply this new approach to the story.

What if I made the book alive?  Make it the equivilent of the puppy dog
character I’ve mentioned before?  One part of me is saying that
this is too far off the point, but another side of me is saying that
it’s perfect.

Maybe modelling it’s behavior after a dog is what’s throwing me.  This
really is not a dog sort of a story.  (And maybe it’s also that I’m
not really a dog kind of person.  I don’t like dogs.)  More like a
little fellow, like Hilark.

What might be cool would be is if it became alive and then became still
again based upon something.  Like getting wet or being in moonlight
or something.  If I were to do that, it would need to be some element
that fit the story and also had some deeper meaning to it.

The more that I think about it, the one nice thing about that idea is
that James reading that book is pretty well over.  It just doesn’t
fit.  It’s like the book reading was a metaphor, but now we’re in
the metaphor, so it’s meaningless from this angle.  Yet the book is
still important.  So then perhaps even if this coming alive idea
isn’t quite right, I’m on the right track.  I need to update the
book’s metaphor to fit this current fantasy world.  It’s more
than a tool.  It’s a whole entity unto itself.  Another thought was
that I’d have it tag right along with James, but that’s not
right.  Perhaps that’s part of why I didn’t like the dog idea. 
It needs to be more mysterious, powerful, and on it’s own.  Like it
bounces in and out of scenes.  I’d actually say that the raven
would be the best candidate if I were ever going to have anyone stick
with James from scene to scene.  Though I think it could be really
fun to have everyone bounce in and out of scenes chaotically.

Okay, I’ve played with that for a bit, now it’s time to move on to the
darker stuff.  The war between perversion and purity.  I’ve almost
lost a bit of it.  I need to get back on track.

Adelle seems to be the key to everything.  Everything is both more beautiful
and creepier with her all at the same time.

I want to be wreckless with this first part!  Throw everything together
and just go crazy!  But I still haven’t worked everything out yet. 
The elements that is.  I want to have absolutely no rules as to what
elements to throw in and out, I just need them.  I suppose what I
need to do is start making a list, not of the scenes, but of the
elements, and why they are in there.
