---
title: Magic vs. Engineering
notion_id: 2c158e628ba280f398fbc4bc9cbccc0a
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/Data/Tensions/Magic vs Engineering 2c158e628ba280f398fbc4bc9cbccc0a.md
alias: Magic vs. Engineering
created_at: 2025-12-06T17:54:00.000Z
modified_at: 2026-05-16T17:45:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Magic-vs-Engineering-2c158e628ba280f398fbc4bc9cbccc0a
notion_archived: false
---
# Magic vs. Engineering

# Problem

I want to apply cool technical innovations to magic.

However, the more I apply engineering principles to magic, the magic system quickly stops being an analogy for real world technology and practically becomes the same thing as the real world equivalent.

For example, when I go down the road of treating magical energy like electricity, before long the magic effectively is electricity.

As far as the audience experience is concerned, there is no difference.

# Summary

While there is a section later titled “Special”, really all of the following sections fall under “Special”.

Magic is special while technology is ordinary.

Engineering turns turns wonder into convenience.

[Special vs. Common](Special%20vs%20Common%202c158e628ba280fda28dfb6acb77d8d8.md).

# Magic for the Masses

One of the main differences between common fantasy magic and technology is magic is usually exclusive, while technology invariably becomes mass-produced tools.

It’s like in [The Incredibles](../../Articles/Other%20narratives/The%20Incredibles%2036258e628ba2803db2c8e298b5ed3ee2.md) , where the villain Syndrome is planning on mass-producing superhero equipment so everyone can be superheroes.

# Personal vs. impersonal

Magic ability tends to be personal in fantasy.

This is largely due to the magic ability being intrinsic.

In real life, technology is normally extrinsic.

# Technology knowledge

Technology requires a degree of understanding to use, but it requires far less knowledge to use than it does to create.

| Activity | Required knowledge |
| --- | --- |
| Use | 1 |
| Maintain | 3 |
| Create | 5 |

# Magic knowledge

That is the problem with most implementations of magic knowledge.

In most fantasy settings, only specialists can use magic.

The degree of specialization required to use magic is the degree of specialization which—in the real world—is only needed to invent and manufacture systems, not use them.

## Inconsistency between magic and ordinary rules

Such fantasy settings approach magic and non-magic requirements inconsistently.

A person needs to be a wizard spending a lifetime of magic in order to cast a spell.

However, in those same settings, while farmers needs to have practical understanding of farming, they don’t need to be botanists.

# Limited and unique availability

A part of magic in fantasy settings is that it is special.

Usually, most people in a fantasy setting can’t use magic.

When most people in a fantasy setting *are* magical, they are usually uniquely magical.

> 💡 A prime example of this the Piers Anthony’s Xanth series, where each person is born with a unique ability.

> 💡 Another prime example of this are Superheroes, where two superheroes rarely share the exact same abilities.

[Special vs. Common](Special%20vs%20Common%202c158e628ba280fda28dfb6acb77d8d8.md).

# Media analysis

[Analysis of fantasy engineering in Ghostbusters](Magic%20vs%20Engineering/Analysis%20of%20fantasy%20engineering%20in%20Ghostbusters%202dc58e628ba280c98810c9934aea5eb6.md)

# The problem with understanding

An essential ingredient to magic’s appeal is mystery.

Once the curtain is pulled back, magic loses its wonder.

The core of that is broken down in:

[Magic tech equation](Magic%20vs%20Engineering/Magic%20tech%20equation%202c258e628ba280d0ab29c7fa760c56cb.md)
