---
title: Isolation
notion_id: 330cda5056f64459b8d0d46a66ed21a2
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/Features/Isolation 330cda5056f64459b8d0d46a66ed21a2.md
alias: Isolation
inferred_notion_path: Marloth/Features
created_at: 2024-03-03T02:34:00.000Z
modified_at: 2026-05-23T01:07:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Isolation-330cda5056f64459b8d0d46a66ed21a2
notion_archived: false
---
# Isolation

Isolation can add a distinct and valuable flavor of surrealism.

Isolation is important for introspection.

Isolation provides contrast to society.

# Solo agent

This feature is for a solo agent.  The main character can be periodically bumping into other characters, but is largely walking around unaccompanied.

# Introspection

A key part of this feature is having times to be alone with one’s own thoughts.

# In the wild

The main character is not a part of some larger social system.

> 💡 Dark City takes place in a city, but much of the time its residents slumber.
> Dark City strikes a fine balance between a city that feels both populated and deserted.

Isolation takes place more often in the [Cozy horror wilderness](Cozy%20horror/Cozy%20horror%20wilderness%2028a58e628ba28086abb9fd7fb9afdcaf.md).

# Mind screw

A key part of this feature is emphasizing subjective experience.

Companions provide sanity checks.  Without that, extra doubt can be cast on the player’s perception.

> 💡 This distinction stands out in single-player vs. multiplayer games.  It is far easier to employ Escher-like spatial tricks in a single player, because so many of those tricks are subjective and the effect is broken when there are multiple vantage points.

> 💡 Technically, [The Witcher](../Inspirations/Inspirations/The%20Witcher%20d52418cdc33d47ba8c64bc60adabd302.md) revolve around an isolated character, but I’m not tagging that inspiration with this feature because the aspects of isolation I am interested in here are generally not leveraged in those games.
> The Witcher is left to his thoughts, but we rarely hear his thoughts unless he is talking to someone.
> The Witcher’s experiences are rarely subjective.
