---
title: Design conflict resolution
notion_id: 36958e628ba2804ebb41c24472937897
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/Articles/Design conflict resolution 36958e628ba2804ebb41c24472937897.md
alias: Design conflict resolution
inferred_notion_path: Marloth/Articles
created_at: 2026-05-23T15:57:00.000Z
modified_at: 2026-05-23T23:41:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Design-conflict-resolution-36958e628ba2804ebb41c24472937897
notion_archived: false
---
# Design conflict resolution

# Overview

My narrative creative style revolves around conflicting ideas.

Having your cake and eating it too.

I have multiple methods for resolving such conflicts.

This page is the high level home for those problems and the methods of their solution.

# Resolving the Law of Non-contradiction

> “A cannot be A and non-A at the same time and in the same sense” - R.C. Sproul, Defending your Faith

The Law of Non-contradiction often has an important qualifying clause:

> “at the same time and in the same sense”

The clause is the key to resolving conflicting ideas within narratives.

## Isolated realities

It is like the scene [James and the nurse](../Scenes/James%20and%20the%20nurse%202ba58e628ba280ab8759d1bd42052961.md) in [A Child’s Fairytale World](../Data/Products/A%20Child%E2%80%99s%20Fairytale%20World%20c368a02eabb74a47ab322615f2769723.md):

> Each one of its residents is an individual. Each one of them is special.  Each one of them is a separate reality unto itself. And each one is equally true. So walking the halls of the Asylum can be likened to exploring an interdimensional observatory. Not one of these worlds conflict with each other, because none of them interact with each other.  And all of this is made possible by the wonderful invention of the prison cell. But only a narrow-minded person indeed would call such a place a prison. It is an environment where people can freely express themselves with no negative results. A place where their expressions are not imprisoned by such outmoded ideas as reality.

# Method summary

My methods for resolving design conflicts are:

1. Time
2. Space ([](../Data/Locations%20df096ab26e8347e6992e95698345aad0.md))
3. [Premise decomposition](Premise%20decomposition%2020f58e628ba280c69893f36ae6a971bc.md) 
4. [Applied surrealism](../Features/Surreal/Applied%20surrealism%2029a58e628ba280dfa7a0ecf58f43045c.md) 
5. Diverse characters

# Time

[Resolving design conflicts with time](Design%20conflict%20resolution/Resolving%20design%20conflicts%20with%20time%2036958e628ba2809abe5dd72410cbe11b.md)

# Space

[Locations with personality](../Features/Locations%20with%20personality%201d458e628ba2805fbfbde594b4ccc002.md)
