---
title: Ambient action
created_at: 2026-06-03T04:21:38.069Z
modified_at: 2026-06-03T09:11:40.090Z
---
Commotion that is happening outside the immediate scene location.

## Motivation

Ambient action is a way of resolving the tension between [[6e00e13b9bf64b0dbcebd8480f33a7c1]].

I am less interested in focused action, and more interested in having a "sense of action".

In other words, invoking action as more of a mood than a particular event.

Ambient action is an effective means of creating a "sense of action".

It is like background music—it can influence tone without interfering with other forms of communication such as voice and reading.

# Composition

Generally ambient action is not any form of commotion.

It usually involves cries of distress and sounds of destruction and battle.

## Change

The commotion of Ambient action is not simply a constant din, such as the wailing in the Asylum.

Ambient action is the sound of significant change.

Big things are going down.

# Visuals

Ambient action is primarily auditory, but it can also involve visual cues as well as long as they are indirect.

Flashes of light are one of the easiest visual means of incorporating ambient action.

# Updates via dialog

Another form of ambient action is when characters give brief updates to other characters about the action currently taking place.

One of the classic movie examples of this is when characters watch a news reporter on television anxiously describing the current riot or invasion or natural disaster.

[[c368a02eabb74a47ab322615f2769723]] does this in cases when the Raven drops by to update James on the chaos happening in the vicinity.

# Neverwinter Nights

Many video games employ this technique, but the definitive one that most inspired this concept is [[b1de5c0c474b4a9f96d7b652dcd30ece]].
