---
title: Gray hero
notion_id: a6e54691793c4421aba8787b7b04a6a9
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/Archive/Foils/Gray hero a6e54691793c4421aba8787b7b04a6a9.md
alias: Gray hero
created_at: 2023-10-24T05:43:00.000Z
modified_at: 2023-11-09T04:38:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Gray-hero-a6e54691793c4421aba8787b7b04a6a9
notion_archived: false
---
# Gray hero

A character that embodies the idea that when villainy has the world by the throat, your only hope is a villain not quite as bad.

It’s a fallacy.  Good begets good and bad begets bad.  Two wrongs don’t make a right.

This is a character I want to particularly contrast with James.  If I do that, it would be good to minimize the differences between the characters so the grayness is the primary distinction.  For example, if I made the character significantly older or a woman, any conflict between them could feel like it’s partially due to their differences in station.  If it is a similar young man, then it can almost feel like a “what if” alternate version of James.

Not to say that it has to be a mirror image of James.  I still want each character to be distinct.  Just that it would be beneficial if the gray hero was in similar categories as James.

[Miles](./55be668bc999441da2a96ebd11a05626.md) is a candidate for gray hero.

# Archive

> 💡 NOTE: After more thought, Gray heroes don’t have to save the world begrudgingly.  I think I was too caught up on a particular type.  A compromising idealist would probably be more effective for TWOLD.
> *At first glance this could also be the [Save the world](./f60f7905c81b43cb94e8c0b36feba57a.md) character, but I’d like to keep them separate, and at closer inspection they are actually opposites.
> Gray heroes only save the world begrudgingly.*
