---
title: Stabilizing Newlyweds
notion_id: a834feb3c7b84779bd2112c59d4a13b9
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/TWOLD Plot/Arcs/Stabilizing Newlyweds a834feb3c7b84779bd2112c59d4a13b9.md
alias: Stabilizing Newlyweds
created_at: 2024-02-05T03:19:00.000Z
modified_at: 2024-12-04T02:47:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Stabilizing-Newlyweds-a834feb3c7b84779bd2112c59d4a13b9
notion_archived: false
---
# Stabilizing Newlyweds

# Background

I think I’ve overreacted toward trying to uphold stability, and have been rushing it in the story.

It is not uncommon or wrong for it to take some time for newlyweds to become well established.

> 💡 I have to remember, depicting newlyweds in any form—particularly healthy, Christian newlyweds—is almost unheard of.  That will be a small victory in itself.

# Execution

I think it would be okay to have one or more story arcs where James and Adelle are bouncing between turbulent situations, trying to find a good home.  The Asylum part is already one case of this.

# Caution

Part of the key here is to actually have a long term plan and vested interest in stable home stories.  The mistake most make is to only know how to make the turbulent interesting.  While the establishing phase will be fun to explore, it is only a transitional phase.  The bulk of the future narratives will be post-establishment.

# Personal Experience

I tend to forget, but this is how Kellie and my early years were.  Compared to my single life it looked like immediate stability, but:

1. It took 5 years for us to find a church we could settle into (and a few years after that before we established roots there).
2. My job was a crazy roller coaster for 11 years before it finally stabilized.
3. The first year was a more difficult transition for Kellie, both never living outside her parents’ home before, and quickly entering pregnancy.
4. We started off in an apartment before moving to a house.
