---
title: Geometry at a human scale
created_at: 2026-06-17T21:44:36.823Z
modified_at: 2026-06-21T07:13:00.440Z
---
An interesting idea that shook out of [[db4f4d7b57ef4e0aa6b645fe4b25b5db]] is:

> You can draw a map of *The Lord of the Rings*, but the exact shape of a hallway in Minas Tirith rarely matters.
>
> By contrast, in a well-designed *Dark Souls* area, changing a staircase location might completely alter the narrative experience.
>
> The geometry is operating at a human scale where every connection matters.

The Lord of the Rings places a lot of weight on geography, but not at a human scale.

What I am most interested in is the *human scale*.

# Analogies

## Metric and Imperial

While:

1. The metric measurement system is more ideal
2. The imperial metric system maps closer to practical human units.

## Warhammer and Mordheim

While:

1. Warhammer and Warhammer 40K are the flagship Games Workshop products
2. I prefer the smaller scale of [[e6b55f683b5849d8a23bbbf0b219411b]].

# Intimacy

A key part of the appeal for me is intimacy.

A smaller environment feels more personal.

# Huge backdrop

This ties in with the general game level design aesthetic I've always gravitated toward:

> Small, cozy interior spaces with windows leading out to grand exterior spaces

[[fc8e49d86528449b9c10259f259ec2d8]]

## Spiritual

There's a parallel between that dynamic and the relationship between God and man.

Man has a tiny perspective on the world, but through God's creation and His Word, we can see a glimpse of vast expanses beyond our comprehension.

# Conclusions

Make local space comprehensive, and remote space incomprehensible.

Apply depth-of-field to spatial layout.
