---
title: Fugue
alias: Fugue
---
# Fugue

# Overview

Fugue is the definitive “friend” character.

He embodies the fun, zany, adventurous side of my childhood.

# Irony

Fugue is very ironic.

Out of all Marloth characters, Fugue is the most likely to say non sequiturs.

# Practical

While Fugue is fun loving, he is also practical.

Fugue is a strong S (Sensing). He is down-to-Earth and concerned with immediate, concrete problems.

Fugue is not a long-term planner, but he does prepare before each task.

He is mission-oriented and treats every activity as a job.

# Unconditional love

There was a period during the first book where I wrestled with Fugue’s motivation for helping James, before I finally realized that it was far more magical and sentimental when he *had no motivation*.

Fugue helps James because that’s who Fugue is.  He was *meant* to help James.

> 💡 This tension is in contrast to the Bear, who has a similar role except his character is all about getting deeply tied into the messy bits of the plot.  The bear is the character with creditors chasing after him.
> Due to that the Bear character doesn’t generate quite as much wonder as Fugue does.  The Bear is surreal, but Fugue is more surreal.

# Role tension

There’s a tension with Fugue.  In some respects he embodies more aspects of the Marloth essence than any other character, yet he instantly loses his mystique when the story becomes about him.

Which is odd because it’s not like he’s a supporting character—he’s not.  He adds little to plot or drama, and is a scene stealer.

Fugue is a grandparent that swoops in to take part in the grandchildren’s mirth and hand them off once they begin to melt down.

# Design origins

## Baulk / Balk

Fugue rips-off much of my previous characters: Baulk.

Baulk was one of the two main supporting character to Zink (similar to Goofy or Donald supporting Micky Mouse).

> 💡 The other main supporting character was Marshmellow Guy, who’s personality was similar to [[2bb58e628ba2808e91c8cd3b4fe451e7]].

# Jade

Jade was a member of the band of heroes in the Heroes Realm / Oak series I wrote in my teens.

Jade was:

- An anthropomorphic mink (white, I think).
- A rogue
- Cool-headed and rational
- Always spoke in subjective, non-committal language
- Led a band of mute, shadowy minions (inspired by Dungeon Keeper’s imps).

> 💡 The way Jade wielded his minions was similar to the way Jackie indirectly commanded the Darklings in *The Darkness.*
> I wasn’t aware of that comic until over a decade later.

Jade’s personality was very different from Fugue, but he fulfilled some of the same roles as the cute, ironic character that nonchalantly solves adventure problems.

## Hilark / Hylark

Hilark was a member of the band of heroes in the Heroes Realm / Oak series I wrote in my teens.

Hilark was:

- An elf and the main sidekick of the protagonist, Ben
- More fairy elf, less Tolkien elf
- Dumb, friendly, and talkative.

His main contribution to the team was to say naive statements that were humorous, and sometimes accidentally insightful and cutting.

Fugue inherited that role.

Unlike Hilark, Fugue provides far more value to the story.

# Similar characters in other media

## Snoopy

I don’t recall ever consciously modelling Fugue after Snoopy, but a few years ago I saw *Race for your Life Charlie Brown* (one of my childhood favorites) and I was struck by how similar Fugue and Snoopy are.

The main difference is Fugue is first-and-foremost James’ friend.  (Possibly James’ best friend.)

Snoopy can rarely be considered Charlie Brown’s *friend*.

Snoopy is a loner.

Snoopy is a great character but he has different storytelling chemistry—Snoopy plot lines usually run parallel to and independent of Charlie Brown plot lines.

# Back to a friendlier Fugue and Agency work

11/30/2025:

The past several years I have wanted Fugue to be separate from [[44db7ec455e14b10a9bc1da088f20f66]] because I felt like Fugue wouldn’t trust [[95e68e70d28b409281fa2b931537bb79]].

The Agency, particular under the leadership of the [[95e68e70d28b409281fa2b931537bb79]]

However, Fugue is an otherwise great fit for the Agency, and it made it difficult to add him to the story.

I still planned on adding Fugue but have been deferring figuring it out because every time I took a stab that issue got in the way.


While doing so, I was surprised that Fugue was more childish and reckless than I remembered.

I think over time my conceptualization of the characters has shifted, where the dolls (particularly [[763765b8b4e341f3b0b51f37f8d7c021]]) became the embodiment of whimsy while Fugue became more serious.

> 💡 In particular, he unconsciously became more *Snoopy*.
> Too much Snoopy.
> (Like the book: *The Berenstain Bears and too much Snoopy*)

I think a subtle shift in that direction would be a good fine tuning, but the extreme shift may have lost an essential part of what makes Fugue effective.

So with that in mind, I think it’s fine to make Fugue an official member of [[44db7ec455e14b10a9bc1da088f20f66]] and working alongside James sooner than later.

I still might pace things a little bit so his entrance can be savored, but I’ve been wanting to avoid deferrin his joining in the adventures as late as the [first book did](./2ba58e628ba2808fb9c5e480a0b78edb.md).
