---
title: Epic Wonderland
alias: Epic Wonderland
---
# Epic Wonderland

# Background

First, Lewis Carroll established his unique brand of fantasy.

Second, Tolkien established the subgenre of high fantasy.

Now and then, authors have attempted to merge the two subgenres, with little success.

# The problem

The main challenge is Wonderland.  It is easier to imitate Tolkien than it is to imitate Carroll.

Both subgenres involve wonder, but Carroll’s is a purer wonder (hence the world name.)  The epic scale of Tolkien’s work generates wonder, but that wonder is a smaller part of the overall experience, only generated through safer and more resilient means.

Because of that, Tolkien created a straight forward and solid template.  Middle Earth is a very tangible, tactile world.  It is comprehensible.

In contrast, Wonderland relies on incomprehension.   Similar to Lovecraft’s works, the wonder of Wonderland is lost if you try to reach out and touch it.

So before an author can even try to marry the two subgenres, the problem of how to make Wonderland corporeal must first be solved, something Wonderland imitators rarely even try.

# American McGee’s Alice

One of the closest successes I have seen is American McGee’s Alice games.  They partially succeed in achieving Epic Wonderland.  But part of the way they achieve that is scaling back the epic slider.  They are more Wonderland than epic.

## Make horror, not war

One of the main epic omissions is allies.  Similar to the id games McGee worked on prior to Alice, the Alice games are mostly one protagonist fighting a world of evil.  It is not a war with two forces.

The games flirt with being a war and giving Alice allies, but those are usually some of their weakest points.

> 💡 The noble Griffin feels boring and out-of-place in the first Alice game.

The Cheshire cat and White rabbit work better as allies because they are barely allies.  The former is antagonistic and the latter is indifferent.

And they rarely interact with the environment.

The Cheshire cat in particular is mostly a ghost.

> 💡 The Raven in Marloth plays a similar role to Alice’s Cheshire cat.
> I never thought of it before, but that may have been a subconscious influence for me.

The second game converts the Mad Hatter from a enemy into an ally, and while it sort of works, he still loses a lot of his mystique in the process.  McGee doesn’t seem to know how to frame allies and make them endearing.

## Battle Alice

While the Alice games may not be wars between two factions, the games are battles, and that is one of the main aspects where they achieve Epic Wonderland.  Most other narratives which attempt to marry Wonderland with combat usually lose the wonder.

The key to this successful combination is Gothic glue.  Alice in Wonderland has hints of Gothic, but never runs with it.  It has been common practice to mix Wonderland with Gothic elements, but arguably no one has done that better than American McGee.

> 💡 Gothic compliments Wonderland like peanut butter and jelly.

# Tim Burton

Tim Burton seems like a strong influence on American McGee’s Alice, though if that is the case, it seems like McGee has gone out of his way to distance himself from Burton as an influence.

I can relate to that.  Tim Burton has influenced my art and I went through a Burton phase, but I later became disenchanted and learned to take select gems from Burton’s bag of tricks and discard the rest.

Tim Burton tends to make passive, reactive protagonists.

> 💡 That ironically worked well with the Batman movies.  Burton’s passive tendencies counter-balanced the baseline subject matter of an over-the-top proactive hero.

That counterbalance was an ingredient that let to one of the most sublime depictions of Batman.

Even though Burton specializes in horror, Burton protagonists rarely grab a weapon and engage in combat.  Even Edward Scissor Hands (who, unlike most martial arts stars, can truly say his hands are deadly weapons) is a pacifist.

Burton movies seem to be strongly influenced by American-style horror movies, where the tendency is to make villains powerful and main characters victims.  While that can be engaging at times, I’ve never been a fan of that constant extreme in American horror.

There is a place for pacifism, but Burton’s protagonist pacifism borders on emasculation.

[[a7b1e86d59af47c5a57cd175076f8474]]

# Marloth

Out of all of the narratives I know of, the first Marloth book comes the closest to achieving Epic Wonderland.  At the end of the day, it is still closer to Wonderland than Middle Earth, but it is close enough to Epic Wonderland for my taste.

One of the main keys was developing techniques to make Wonderland corporeal.  Once that is solved, making Wonderland epic becomes much easier.

> 💡 Most of those techniques are captured in my [Marloth Narrative Guidelines](https://github.com/silentorb/marloth-story/blob/master/design/general/marloth-narrative-guidelines.md).

As mentioned earlier, I also stayed closer to Wonderland than Middle Earth.  One of the main cases of this is a relying on the [band-of-misfits trope](https://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Main/RagtagBunchOfMisfits).  This is not a full war between two large forces, but between a small band of heroes and a larger world.

Unlike American McGee’s Alice, Marloth handles allies better, but still limits their quantity to an intimate group of friends.

That’s another key element to maintaining the wonder in Wonderland—keeping things personal.  The wonder of epic allows for huge battles between armies of nameless stunt doubles, but that is a shallow wonder.

Part of the effectiveness of Tolkien’s books is how he maintains a personal connection between the macro and the micro.  That has been a cornerstone for all of his successful successors.

However, that recipe still relies heavily on the macro, and the macro can’t help but be impersonal.

> 💡 Tolkien used a two-pronged approach to macro/micro interface characters: ordinary folk and rulers.
> Ordinary folk like the hobbits are linked to macro issues through extraordinary means such as the One Ring.
> Rulers are linked to the macro through ordinary means: they have considerable authority and their decisions have global consequences.
> The problem with ordinary folk is there are only so many extraordinary contrivances an author can rely on to link them to the macro.  Due in part to this, the ordinary folk approach has become less popular, while ruling main characters have become the de facto standard for high fantasy.  Court politics and high fantasy have become inseparable.  (*The Lord of the Rings* had relatively little court politics.)

> 💡 The Marloth approach is to mostly imply the macro.  Hint at larger scenes and story lines, but rarely *show* them.
> The Lord of the Rings shows a grand tapestry and then zooms in and out between individual characters.
> Marloth stays focused on individual characters and uses the grand tapestry as an occasional background.
