---
title: Asylum job - Madness to magic
notion_id: c21886187a354560bc9c40d9b1de6df5
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/TWOLD Plot/Arcs/Asylum job - Madness to magic c21886187a354560bc9c40d9b1de6df5.md
alias: Asylum job - Madness to magic
created_at: 2023-12-03T20:52:00.000Z
modified_at: 2025-09-30T02:39:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Asylum-job-Madness-to-magic-c21886187a354560bc9c40d9b1de6df5
notion_archived: false
---
# Asylum job - Madness to magic

# Premise

I have another idea for an asylum job that is better than the last one ([Asylum job - mixed realities](./ad3d2f22d8da45f4b49c71fa94c8ab79.md)).

What if the City is running out of resources, and there is a push to euthanize the Asylum patients because they are not contributing members of society?

In order to counter-act that, an experimental process is established to extract magical energy from madness.

I could introduce a fuzzy mechanism where mad people are minor portals into other dimensions, and with the right combination of magic and science, magic energy can be drawn through that portal?

This storyline would tie [The Asylum](./84234f68b64e4530836706622d4bde1b.md) to both ‣ and [Magic as a resource](./8da540d73ca5432c9ec91e509464e541.md).

# Plot conclusion

How does this sub-story end?

I like this to be an ongoing mechanic so I don’t want it to flat out end.

Mostly I want the jobs James works on to fail, but in this case I need it to succeed.

However, since it is the first job depiction, it is important to establish the cynical tone here.

Is there a way that I can make the job succeed but still feel like a farce and/or loss?

# Playing with fire

[Playing with fire](./11158e628ba280edaca1d0d5cfd07cc2.md).

So people are opening up a portal into another world through madmen.

Of course the other world is going to be a Cthulhu nightmare.

# Fire from the gods

[Fire from the gods](./716ab685a22947019750d497c9b0c798.md) 

Instead of building the machine from scratch, wizards built the machine but it is not operating.  Either it never worked, promptly stopped working, or—my favorite option—for some reason the Wizard’s pulled out and the Asylum does not know how to operate the machine without them.

For the latter case, the Agency would be hired to circumvent the Wizards and figure out how to leverage the Wizards’ tech without them.

# Future arc

Maybe later in the book, the Asylum could be revisited and it has turned into a factory pretty well dedicated to extracting magic.

Maybe the older trade of woman-magic-extraction could feel threatened by the factory and be opposed to it.

> 💡 I like the idea of James and co revisiting the Asylum head’s office and now it is a pimped out gangster penthouse with pretty women serving expensive drinks.

# Mixed lodging

For a while now, I’ve been assuming that James and Adelle live in the Asylum during this whole arc, and would then go to either the City of Orphans or the forest for the next arc.

However, there’s been a tension where the city would be a more seamless transition from the forest, but I’m not interested in having a whole next arc in the city—I don’t want to wait too long to get to the country.

Recently the idea struck me—what if I split their lodging over the course of the Asylum arc?  The first half could be in the Asylum, and the second half could be in the city.  James would commute to the Asylum as a job.

Originally my in-story justification for them leaving the Asylum was that the agency was dropped from the project.

I can still have that be the cause that ends the arc, but maybe I can use a cause of “not mad” to have them evicted from the Asylum before the agency is dropped.

> 💡 If I do that, there may not be a lot of room to have the pre-scene of seeing a random lady cast out of the Asylum. ([A woman is driven from the Asylum for being sane](./13558e628ba28066994ef0ae0f2b3622.md)) Originally I was planning on not rushing when that scene happened, but with this direction that scene might need to be earlier.
> I would want the danger of being out in the city streets to sink in for a while and not be like, “The city streets are dangers—oh, and we’re casting you out into them!”
