---
title: Surreal
notion_id: cee6644b68094859bf1b17c5e7fd25de
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/Features/Surreal cee6644b68094859bf1b17c5e7fd25de.md
alias: Surreal
created_at: 2024-03-03T02:32:00.000Z
modified_at: 2026-05-17T01:53:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Surreal-cee6644b68094859bf1b17c5e7fd25de
notion_archived: false
---
# Surreal

# Relation to Dreamlike

There is a lot of overlap between this feature and its child feature of [Dreamlike](./ce5b83035c894e0da2137f0584297c4d.md).  For most of my designs I have treated them as identical, and waffled between whether to call the single record Surreal or Dreamlike.

However, there is still some differences so it is useful to maintain the distinction.

> 💡 If an inspiration is dreamlike then it is also surreal, so I am treating them as mutually exclusive and restricting each inspiration to only be associated with one feature or the other.

# Application

[Applied surrealism](./29a58e628ba280dfa7a0ecf58f43045c.md)

# Nested pages

> 💡 Normally I would title this section “Child pages”, except this is a feature and already contains child features.

[Practical surrealism or, How surreal?](./79e58999421640dc877879e1016fbd97.md)

# Surreal juxtaposition

> 💡 Surreal juxtaposition was previously a dedicated motivation and is now rolled into [Surreal](./cee6644b68094859bf1b17c5e7fd25de.md), since I’m starting to suspect that all forms of surrealism involve juxtaposition.

## Definition

Mixing two or more elements together that normally wouldn’t make sense to go together.

This is for cases that are not simply a contrast of extreme elements, (such as two people from opposite walks of life being forced to work together) but a mix of things that in some sense is practically impossible.

These are cases that force the hand of reason to conclude, “This must be happening because Marloth is surreal fantasy.”  There’s no other rationalization for it.

This should rarely if ever be implemented for its own sake.  This should be used as a means of reconciling goals that are normally fundamentally opposed, but can work within fantasy.

However, this feature is not simply a means-to-an-end.  I *want* excuses to leverage this feature.

# Wonderland rating

Previously I had this tagged under Wonderland so that it can effect the Wonderland ratings.

However, I’m increasingly breaking this down into sub-features, and most if not all of those sub-features are also tagged with Wonderland.

At this point it is better to keep this as a higher-level grouping feature and leave the Wonderland weighting to its children.
