---
title: Survival horror
alias: Survival horror
modified_at: 2026-06-13T18:25:07.263Z
created_at: 2026-06-13T18:22:12.769Z
---
Survival horror is a subgenre of horror.

Survival horror in Marloth stories should mostly exist to support [[e5cc80dc61ed4c629951cdf472b20b7a]].

> 💡I'm very close to demoting this to [[528384943746443a9c89699b57e3bbec]].
>
> While survival horror is a key part of my idea of [[e5cc80dc61ed4c629951cdf472b20b7a]], as mentioned about, the survival element is a *supporting* element.
>
> [[e5cc80dc61ed4c629951cdf472b20b7a]] is the primary goal.
>
> However, Cozy horror is so fundamental at this point, that there *may* be room for ideas under it to be considered high-level.
>
> I'm leaving survival horror as a feature for now, but it is on probation.

# **Genre requirements**

To be survival horror, a narrative must meet the following requirements.

## Ordinary people are not exempt from regularly facing the horrors

> 💡 In contrast, most horror stories take place in a world where most people live ordinary lives and only heroes and occasional unfortunates have run-ins with horrors

This is half of the point and appeal of survival horror: to see what ordinary people do when weighed down by extraordinary conditions.

And extraordinary circumstances beyond simply, “There’s a monster, run away!”

Putting a variety of characters under the same pressures to see the contrasting responses

Some characters can be distanced from the survival but it should be because they are extraordinary, not ordinary

## The majority of characters are either victims, oppressors, or both

The victimization here is being trapped in the horrific world

This rules out narratives where most of the characters willingly throw themselves at the horrors (such as treasure hunters or explorers)

# Sub-genres

I like to divide survival horror into two sub-genres:

[[28358e628ba280859907dafca337f880]]

[Contrived survival horror](./28358e628ba2809bacf9eec6bf192d63.md)

# Calamity

## Rules

1. Calamity should not be random
2. Calamity should be tied to inability and mistakes

## Reasons

Random calamity distances the audience. Calamity tied to character failure is more engaging

While random calamity can be disheartening and thus horrific, so can self-inflicted calamity

# Western vs. Eastern horror - Calamity

It is popular in Western horror, particularly horror movies, to have random calamity.

> 💡 Even <https://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Main/SexSignalsDeath> is usually subliminal and not a focused story mechanic.

However, Eastern horror tends to focus more on clear calamity causality, and has demonstrated how well that works.

In general Eastern horror has demonstrated to Western cultures that more technical story mechanics can actually make the story more engaging, and in turn give the horror more weight.

# Categories

Along the lines of [[248eb72cbd0a4e368f9c19e0894c3ea2]], survival horror usually falls into two categories:

1. Portal
2. Intrusive

Usually in both cases the main characters suddenly find themselves in a hostile world.  The difference between the two categories is the characters either:

1. Wake up in a horrific alien world, or
2. Wake up in an ordinary world overrun by horrors

# Dangers

[[28458e628ba28099bf9dde1a919592c5]]

# Spatial mechanics

[Temporal and spatial mechanics of survival horror](./28558e628ba280fe981fdc878310967b.md)

# Contrived survival horror

Contrived survival horror involves a combination of the following elements:

1. Contrived circumstances
2. Extreme danger
3. Puzzles / problems that reward critical thinking
4. Moral dilemmas
5. A variety of characters responding differently to their circumstances.

The last two points are the main reason for having such a scenario.  It is an excellent trial to explore the metal of men and women.

# Immersive survival horror

Normally survival horror is either portal or intrusive, but can it be immersive?

Why is it usually not immersive?

For this matter, it’s not simply survival horror, but the horror genre in general is rarely immersive.

One of the most immediate reasons would be contrast.  Making the horror extraordinary possibly heightens the impact.  Much of horror is about surprise and keeping the audience off-balance.

But I have little interest in horrifying audiences.  As has always been the case, I like horror as a style.

Dark fantasy is more precisely what I’m looking for, except horror is one its ingredients, and survival dark fantasy isn’t a formal genre.

Now that I think about it, dark fantasy is far more often immersive than horror.  Maybe its time to formalize the genre.

Maybe I should formalize survival dark fantasy as a sub-genre.

# Post-apocalyptic

[[29358e628ba2809b9d3bf8a81a87ceda]]
