---
title: Feminine duties
alias: Feminine duties
modified_at: 2026-06-13T18:52:24.620Z
created_at: 2026-06-13T18:49:17.096Z
---
> 💡 My own wife saw me working on this page when it was titled "Wifely duties" and she raised an eyebrow.
>
> Maybe there’s a better term for my intent—the scope of this feature is only chores.
>
> For a while I prefixed the title with “Practical”, yet ironically that was still impractical, so I removed it.

The article [[9a4028eb376f4e9983f54b26c448b42d]] explores the problems caused by devaluing woman’s duties.

> 💡This is currently a feature, even though it is just about covered by other features, particularly [[23358e628ba280ca9e79ebeaa0fa931b]] and [[729f8c8cb3774419a3611b8961a5da02]].
>
> However, I'd like to leave it at least for now because it is so easily overlooked and I want this to have high visibility.

# Survival

To be valued most, feminine duties must exist in a world that desperately needs them.

The survival genre naturally increases the value of feminine duties.

Food, shelter, clothing, the daily chores of a woman become more evidently critical.

[[cad51fd00b284dc094de3a19c1aed59c]]

# Cozy

[Survival vs. Cozy](./27b58e628ba280ea9b77ceb101ea3a65.md)

# Duties

Below is a list of feminine duties, geared specifically to the fantastic setting of Marloth.

* Food preparation and serving

* Hosting

* Shopping and related errands

* Laundry

* Gardening

* Home medicine

* Child care and education

* Community coordination

* Managing Community events

* Sewing - mending garments

* House cleaning

* Home furnishing and decor

* Home [lighting](./1d958e628ba280ca8af1ff43eb5c3a1f.md)

* Pest extermination

For someone who deals in dreams, you aren’t on good terms with sleep.

I can control my dreams when I am awake. When I am asleep I am at their mercy.
