---
title: James and Adelle representing two worlds
created_at: 2026-06-13T19:50:33.165Z
modified_at: 2026-06-14T01:26:52.784Z
---
# Background

For a long time I've been juggling conflicting ideas which largely fall into two categories.

I've documented those categories in [[22758e628ba280849aefd9a002bf488f]].

# The idea

While discussing that dichotomy with myself, I used the phrase, "Since I'm trying to marry these two worlds together".

I immediately noticed the similarity between that and Adelle and James.

There's already an undercurrent of James being more at home with one half of the dichotomy, and Adelle being more at home with the other half.

What if I doubled down on that analogy?

What if I subtly re-framed the story as the marrying of two worlds, with each spouse representing one of those worlds?

# Re-frame changes

The current premise only describes one of the worlds:

> A husband and wife go on adventures in a surreal world.

I am trying to give the husband and wife's domains equal weight, yet she is living in *his* world.

I think that's okay, but what would need to change is to introduce the notion that Adelle comes from *another world*.

That ties in both with [[1e2cf9c7997f48f7bf052c4ee98aec4b]] and [[54190f7026bf4beb96bc5ef39de248ee]].

She isn't simply injecting stability out of thin air, she's bringing in ideas from where she is from.

Model it after the way various women in the Bible each left her home to ultimately find a husband:

1. Rebecka
2. Ruth
3. Esther

# Worlds collide

What If I further re-framed the story as a "worlds collide" story?

# Two cities

I already have the notion of [[4ad86022c46e49e9843a4c05ab0d3bcd]].

Already, one of them leans more toward Adelle and the other leans more toward James.

What if I doubled-down on the parallels?

# Analogies of conflict

In the story, the two cities are at war.

Likewise, the two sides of this dichotomy are naturally at war.

What if I mirrored this with conflict between James and Adelle?

So far, I've gone out of my way to minimize any conflict between the couple.

There are many reasons for that, but I've been figuring it would still be good to have *some* conflict.

> 💡The one outstanding planned marital conflict arc has been [[32a6b27f0168463a9c2bf374a5e3a664]].

# Parents

One exception to all of these patterns lining up is I have been picturing both sets of parents as more grounded toward Adelle's world.

<br />

# Closing thoughts

This direction has the potential to take a high-concept story, and make it *staggeringly* high-concept.
