---
title: Cozy horror
alias: Cozy horror
modified_at: 2026-06-17T01:43:29.992Z
created_at: 2026-06-17T01:28:36.915Z
---
# Overview

This page describes a particular combination of coziness and horror which is used in Marloth narratives.

[[c368a02eabb74a47ab322615f2769723]] featured some of this, but [[e028aa0786f5449984a4f497c1d746fa]] was the first Marloth book to formalize the idea and make it central to the setting.

## High-level definition

Cozy horror is when a setting simultaneously features both cozy and horror elements in such a way as to compliment each other.

# Practical definition

Most locations in Marloth fall into one of two opposing extremes:

* Wilderness
* Sanctuaries

Wilderness provides the horror, while sanctuaries provide the coziness.

The horror provides a foil for the sanctuary.

The sanctuary provides a place for weary travelers to anticipate (like Heaven).

# Wilderness

[[28a58e628ba28086abb9fd7fb9afdcaf]]

# Sanctuaries

[Sanctuaries](./28a58e628ba280bdb83effe9f4031ff5.md)

# Security

A key aspect of cozy horror is security.

This is touched on in [[28a58e628ba280bdb83effe9f4031ff5]], but worth highlighting here as well.

# Not all cozy horror is cozy horror

While most cases involving both cozy and horror fall under this category, this idea is mostly concerned about the *interplay* of coziness and horror, where they compliment each other.

There can be cases where a scene involves both coziness and horror, yet is not cozy horror.

That can happen when the horror *undermines* the coziness, or vice-a-versa.

When the cozy and horror are fighting against each other, it isn't cozy horror.

## Examples

For example, a Hitchcock-like scene might involve two individuals in a cozy setting, where one of the characters is preparing to murder the other character, and the audience is aware of the intent.  The suspense and wickedness would make the coziness feel fake and creepy.

> 💡 A classic example of this is *Arsenic and Old Lace*.
> It is a cozy setting yet mostly *unsettling*.

