---
title: Old fantasy
notion_id: f08f71f9470d40c287a937620c8f7f3d
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/Articles/Old fantasy f08f71f9470d40c287a937620c8f7f3d.md
alias: Old fantasy
inferred_notion_path: Marloth/Articles
created_at: 2024-08-18T01:30:00.000Z
modified_at: 2025-12-15T09:13:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Old-fantasy-f08f71f9470d40c287a937620c8f7f3d
notion_archived: false
---
# Old fantasy

# Background

I have been increasingly wanting to explore and integrate [Folklore](../Features/Folklore%20b9b9e0b8df614e64bae9bf2ec5b048a2.md) into TWOLD, particularly folk mythology, but have been concerned that the folklore I am interested in is too intrinsically connected to superstition, and I don’t want to promote superstition.

But after researching folklore more, I’ve discovered there are actually more wholesome elements to it than I thought, and that part of its appeal has been escape from a larger and more immediate fallacy—modern superstition.

# Holistic folklore

[Folklore](../Features/Folklore%20b9b9e0b8df614e64bae9bf2ec5b048a2.md) is tied closely with [Community](../Features/Community%20c80ee480543c42eda65e330b6d1c6d9b.md).  In societies with limited technology, folklore is an important tool for defining cultural structure and passing on culture between generations.

The fantasy of folklore used to be closely tied to everyday life.

# Atheism and Materialism

With the rise of Atheism and Materialism, fantasy became compartmentalized from everyday life.

With the rejection of spiritual reality, the enlightened mind had to partition fantasy.

Fantasy became pure escapism—entertainment stripped of religious relevance.

As fantasy became partitioned, fantasy settings became less here and more elsewhere.

# Superheroes

In cases where modern fantasy remained within ordinary settings, the fantasy was still compartmentalized from everyday life.  The primary case of this is superhero comics.

It is rare and novel to tie superheroes to everyday life.  It is novel for superheroes to marry and have kids, and when they do, there is a constant tension between the fantastic elements and the familial elements.

> 💡 The standard Western superhero formula is incompatible with everyday life.

That is in contrast with classic folklore, where most of the characters and their experiences were rooted in every day life.

# Rationalism

Over time, fantasy has increasingly become systematized.  That can be helpful, but some of it has been driven by rationalism, reducing what we believe to what we comprehend.

# The Bible and other religions

The Bible does not contain mythology.

Even if someone disbelieves the Bible and sees it as myth, the Bible’s supernatural elements are not like the folklore of other religions.

Common religions, particularly ancient religions, relied on the supernatural to explain ordinary phenomena.  As far as I know, outside of the Bible, there is no religion that believes in a god that works on two levels, both ordinary and extraordinary, the way God does.

Israel did not need hobgoblins and fairies to explain natural phenomena.

God causes the rain to fall, and occasionally miraculously causes droughts and floods, but He does not do so based on annual human traditions.

God answers prayer, but He is not a genie in a bottle.  Humans do not control Him.  There is no 1:1 causality between human actions and His actions.    He reacts to our actions, but not directly—He considers far more factors than we can see.

The gods of mythology are both humanly deterministic and humanly fickle.  When man invents a god, he invents a god with a vision no grander than what man can imagine.  God is logical, but logic beyond our comprehension.

# Spiritual fantasy

While other ancient religions are false, they do acknowledge the spiritual, and that is reflected in their lore.  Their fantasy is closely integrated with their daily lives just as their religion is.

In subtle ways, materialism has influenced Western Christianity—downplaying and compartmentalizing the spiritual.

# Faith

When most modern fantasy stories integrate magic into everyday life, they make it scientific and mundane.  Magic becomes obvious fact.

Older mythology integrated magic into everyday life in such a way that it requires faith.  The magic is more religious because it requires belief in unseen forces.

Doing so also maintains more mystery and wonder.

Modern narratives struggle against that direction.  Normally when they make the existence of magic less certain, they stray into skepticism and cast doubt on whether any of the fantasy is real.

> 💡 The first Marloth book played around with some skepticism at the start and moved away from it over the course of the narrative.
> Later books will probably avoid it more.

# George MacDonald

George MacDonald is one of the earliest authors I am aware of who approached fantasy with an enlightened man-of-science perspective.

He was a pioneer of the Portal style of fantasy ([The four categories of fantasy](The%20four%20categories%20of%20fantasy%20248eb72cbd0a4e368f9c19e0894c3ea2.md)).

He was also a Christian, so his works don’t seem to be shaped by materialistic atheism.

> 💡 George MacDonald was a mentor to Lewis Carrol ([Wonderland](Wonderland%203cbc40d2ba2a4c76b4b9dc370452fcfe.md)).

# Folklore, religion, and the supernatural

[Folklore, religion, and the supernatural](Old%20fantasy/Folklore,%20religion,%20and%20the%20supernatural%202ca58e628ba280679a41df12c1ca02cd.md)

# Application

- It’s okay to employ lore related to superstition, as long as the lore doesn’t involve inherently wicked practices.  Sanctify superstition.
- Tie at least some magic to community and tradition.
- Integrate magic into everyday life, in a faith-based manner.

> 💡 The main issue with employing wicked superstition, even if it is villains employing it, is that wicked superstition is imaginary power and it is dangerous to portray real world lies as narrative truths.
