---
title: Analysis of Dark Souls series
created_at: 2026-06-17T01:50:07.429Z
modified_at: 2026-06-17T06:15:16.879Z
---
# Overview

[[4126541b1c124056b5dff756778cdba2]] has become one of the primary influences on my art over the past 15 years.

It's influence on my game design is fairly straightforward, considering that Dark Souls is a game.

However, surprisingly it is one of the primary inspirations on my story writing as well.

While I have extensive cross-links between [[4126541b1c124056b5dff756778cdba2]] and [[dd0de9867cc345b898929306bdf9fc83]], the influence of this source is profound enough to warrant a more granular analysis of what fascinates me about [[4126541b1c124056b5dff756778cdba2]].

Part of my interest in this exercise is to see if I can extract some of the more elusive and sublime ideas I want to port to my storytelling.

# The series

Throughout this analysis I will be considering all three games in the [[4126541b1c124056b5dff756778cdba2]] series.

However, in a pinch, the first game does contain all of the ideas I am mining the series for and is sufficient for analysis.

However, the second and third games do add further examples and provide a more comprehensive data sample pool to reference.

# The world

By far, my favorite feature of [[4126541b1c124056b5dff756778cdba2]] is its world.

At a high-level, its world is:

1. 3D
2. Organic
3. Strongly vertical
4. Mostly contiguous
5. Open-ended
6. Looping

# Solo adventure

While I am trying to unify [[22758e628ba280849aefd9a002bf488f]], I do relate more to adventure than society.

I feel at home wandering around the wilderness on my own, fighting monsters, and occasionally talking to other characters.

That's similar to my Silent Orb aesthetic of dark background with splashes of light, I suppose I do prefer a solo adventure with splashes of socialization more than socialization with splashes of solo adventure.

# Contiguous world

Except for a few teleporting exceptions, the worlds of the three games are all contiguous.

I am sensitive to continuity in general so I think this kind of layout resonates with me.

# Character location dissonance

## Near combat

The Souls games will occasionally feature locations where a monster that is trying to kill you is right next to a character you can talk to.

It's very [[cee6644b68094859bf1b17c5e7fd25de]] to be fighting for your life and hear a merchant or blacksmith muttering to themselves as they work nearby.

## Odd location

Sometimes the location isn't right next to combat but an odd location.

Fighting through a tower and finding the laddersmith casually standing outside on a ledge.

<br />

