---
title: Dangerous city
notion_id: f2ec9bb510dc440b96920e4651a259be
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/Features/Dangerous city f2ec9bb510dc440b96920e4651a259be.md
alias: Dangerous city
created_at: 2024-06-22T17:27:00.000Z
modified_at: 2026-02-25T04:34:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Dangerous-city-f2ec9bb510dc440b96920e4651a259be
notion_archived: false
---
# Dangerous city

# Feature requirements

For this feature the city itself needs to feel dangerous, not just be a city with dangers in it.

The danger is intrinsic to the city.

This usually means the city needs to have an enumerable variety of dangers instead of a single danger.

A part of the intrinsic quality is the danger needs to persistent, ruling out cases where temporary events cause the city to be dangerous, such as war breaking out.

This is a constant danger the city’s inhabitants live with.

# Motivation

The main point of this feature is to create an extreme tension between stable community and a war zone.

A city that is so dangerous that it is almost inhabitable, yet its society still has a routine and has adapted to the chaos.

# Dark City

[Dark City](./5a033978a93e45789ab3944344d619a3.md) technically only has one group of villains but the city still manages to feel generally threatening.

The city is so generally ominous and foreboding that the danger feels broader than the particular group of villains.

> 💡 For that matter, Dark City would have been 3x more awesome if it *did* have one or more additional villainous forces.
> Fans probably prefer the focus, but I personally feel like the movie would have been more effective if the villains had been given half of their allocated screen time, leaving room for other villains and conceptual exploration from further angles.
