---
title: Family - Paradigm shift
notion_id: f2f432eb11f6473d9ff4cbee762a2632
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/Articles/Family - Paradigm shift f2f432eb11f6473d9ff4cbee762a2632.md
alias: Family - Paradigm shift
created_at: 2024-05-28T19:01:00.000Z
modified_at: 2025-09-27T19:15:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Family-Paradigm-shift-f2f432eb11f6473d9ff4cbee762a2632
notion_archived: false
---
# Family - Paradigm shift

# Overview

As part of the [[8024ba4c517044afa943e5f8c91bae80]], I’m realizing part of the problem is my own perspective and cultural bias.  I’m starting to suspect that if I can renew my perspective to be more objective and Biblical, some of the design problems I’m facing will resolve themselves.

# Timeless issues

It is generally better for authors to focus on timeless issues than temporal issues.

Otherwise, narratives easily become myopic and do not stand the test of time well.

Some issues are niche blips in history.

Such issues are rooted in larger, timeless issues, and it is better to focus on those than on the narrower temporal issues.

# Temporal cases

However, since I am currently being motivated by immediate issues, it would still be good to enumerate them.

## Millennial narcissism

[[27b58e628ba280a197c6db3ebf0cf0d7]] 

## Millennial single

It’s one thing to be called to singleness like the Apostle Paul, it’s another thing to want to be single due to a devaluation of marriage and a disdain for commitment and responsibility.

This is insidious, because so much of fantasy—particularly the kind of fantasy I am trying to create—normally relies on the main characters being free spirits with little commitment and responsibility.

## Millennial couple

> A husband, a wife, and their dog.

## Feminism

[[c2ae1c6671184da6992a835ae77efb26]].

Rejecting the natural roles of wife and mother.

## Grimdark

[[27b58e628ba2805da1cfdda3eff41649]] 

## The American dream

I am easily tempted to idolize the life I have with my wife, kids, house, job, and hobbies.

They are all gifts from God, but they are not God.

## Security

In my pursuit of [[e5cc80dc61ed4c629951cdf472b20b7a]], I find myself falling into a trap of idolizing security.

It is healthy to pursue security, but it is not good to idolize it, and sometimes we need to sacrifice it.

In particular, it is easy to secure myself inside my home and not help those outside of it.

# Biblical alignment

In the Bible:

- People are rarely single, free spirits
- People usually have children if they can
- Women are wives and mothers
- War is a significant aspect of life, amongst many significant aspects of life
- People often idolize their possessions and security.
- People are often uprooted and nomads.
- Rich people often neglect the poor
