---
title: Forest arc restrictions
notion_id: fe57293126d742fbad7585ae48b09a36
source_export: exports/e1871eda-1585-4e95-9781-1add0033d51f_ExportBlock-7929816c-16af-4229-9d56-b036ede8360e.zip/Marloth/Data/Restrictions/Forest arc restrictions fe57293126d742fbad7585ae48b09a36.md
alias: Forest arc restrictions
created_at: 2024-08-06T06:56:00.000Z
modified_at: 2025-04-19T15:55:00.000Z
notion_url: https://www.notion.so/Forest-arc-restrictions-fe57293126d742fbad7585ae48b09a36
notion_archived: false
---
# Forest arc restrictions

# Overview

I don’t have a good precedent for what I’m trying to do with the forest arc, and it would help in that effort if I could start taking short brainstorming stabs and logging the invisible walls so I can start ruling out options.

That process would generate a lot of restrictions, all for a single story arc.  I don’t want to flood the restrictions page, so I’ve created this restriction as a master record to contain all of the mini-restrictions for the forest arc.

# No wealthy characters and buildings in the foreground

Every time I consider what sort of quest James should be given in the forest, my knee jerk reaction is for a local noble to give the quest to him.

But that’s a lazy reaction and every time I eventually realize I don’t actually like that idea.

What attracts me to the forest setting is the common folk.  There can be some wealthy characters and maybe one or more scenes within a Lord’s manor, but I shouldn’t lead with that.

The main people that the heroes interact with are lower class villagers.

# No waking up in bed transition to the forest

The transition either needs to:

1. No transition, we start with James and Adelle already settled in the forest.
2. James and Adelle travel by stagecoach to the forest
3. James and Adelle wake up in the middle of the wilderness (sans bed).
