---
title: "Adelle jobs"
notion_id: "27e58e628ba280cfa819e0af62452435"
aliases:
  - "Adelle jobs"
source_export: "external/notion/Marloth/Solutions/Adelle jobs 27e58e628ba280cfa819e0af62452435.md"
inferred_notion_path: "Marloth/Solutions"
priority: "High"
---
# Adelle jobs

[Children: Adelle as a Barista](adelle-as-a-barista-1d858e628ba280d9bac1cc43140ce0b9.md)[, Adelle as a maid](adelle-as-a-maid-e44bfe4304c44cfca11e22c29d2a08dd.md)[, Adelle as a Seamstress](adelle-as-a-seamstress-28058e628ba28085be5bc2bd12c68bbb.md)
Features: Feminine duties (../Features/Feminine%20duties%20dda5bbf7da044e799df53801b873a5c6.md)
[Products: TWOLD](twold-e028aa0786f5449984a4f497c1d746fa.md)

I wan Adelle to have a variety of part-time jobs over the course of the Marloth narrative.

# Multiple

Why multiple jobs?

[Because similar to how the Doctor](george-e22279389f1e493abd308e948d47a2e8.md)) was an amalgam of scientific professions in the first book, I like the idea of Adelle being an amalgam house wife. 

Also, I want to portray her as being accomplished.  A sort of [Jeeves](jeeves-and-wooster-18658e628ba280b781bfcabd1d05cd5d.md).  Also similar to [Duchess in Ruins](duchess-in-ruins-1da58e628ba280fc9173d1f7d7680bf3.md).

I want to experiment with pushing her variety of skills to almost comical, but only if it is done in a humble manner.

# Part time

I only want Adelle to have part-time jobs.

One reason is I want Adelle to have time to spend homemaking.

I also want Adelle to have time to serve others independent of pay.

# Not a career woman

Both the having multiple jobs and having them only be part-time also reduces any sense of Adelle being a career woman.

# Maid

For this feature I am mostly concerned about jobs *after* Adelle is married.

However, I am including being a maid in the list of jobs even though she will probably only be a maid before she is married.

The reason for that is its inclusion does emphasize the variety of jobs she performs, and there is some overlap between her different jobs.

For example, she makes tea as a maid, which helps prepare her for making tea as a [barista](adelle-as-a-barista-1d858e628ba280d9bac1cc43140ce0b9.md).